 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 
as at 31 December 2025 
 
FRIEDRICH VORWERK GROUP SE 
21255 Tostedt
 
 
 
 
Friedrich Vorwerk in figures 
Page 2 
 
 
 
Friedrich Vorwerk in figures 
 
Financial year
2025
2024
Δ2025
/2024
€k
€k
%
Order backlog
1,021,408
1,187,660
-14.0
Order intake
538,074
685,211
-21.5
Total project volume acquired*
990,765
770,124
28.7
Earnings figures (adjusted**)
€k
€k
%
Revenue
704,326
498,353
41.3
Operating performance
704,326
498,353
41.3
Total performance
733,921
510,241
43.8
Cost of materials
-323,027
-237,473
36.0
Staff costs
-183,804
-149,295
23.1
EBITDA
163,273
80,529
102.8
EBITDA margin
23.2%
16.2%
EBIT
136,802
59,444
130.1
EBIT margin
19.4%
11.9%
EBT
128,021
55,451
130.9
EBT margin
18.2%
11.1%
Consolidated net profit after non-controlling 
interests 
86,510 
35,875 
141.1 
EPS in €
4.33
1.79
141.1
Average number of shares outstanding
20,000,000
20,000,000
0.0
Earnings figures (IFRS)
€k
€k
%
EBITDA
163,273
80,529
102.8
EBIT
136,717
59,281
130.6
Group result
86,501
35,771
141.8
EPS in €
4.33
1.79
141.8
Figures from the statement of financial 
31 Dec
31 Dec
position (IFRS)
€k
€k
%
Non-current assets
202,927
152,677
32.9
Current assets
373,011
284,883
30.9
thereof cash funds
266,038
174,647
52.3
Issued capital
20,000
20,000
0.0
Other equity
265,253
185,006
43.4
Total equity
285,253
205,006
39.1
Equity ratio
49.5%
46.9%
Non-current liabilities
88,294
60,541
45.8
Current liabilities
202,391
172,012
17.7
Total assets
575,938
437,560
31.6
Net financial debt
(net debt (-) / net cash (+))***
261,886
154,257
69.8
Employees (reporting date)
2,243
1,948
15.1
*  In addition to own contribution, the total project volume includes the pro rata order volumes from joint ventures (ARGEs). 
**  With regard to the adjustments, please refer to the explanations within the results of operations, financial position and net   
       assets. 
***  This figure includes securities.
 
 
 
 
Contents 
Page 3 
 
 
 
Contents 
 
Friedrich Vorwerk in figures 
2 
Contents 
3 
Report of the Supervisory Board 
4 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
7 
Economic report 
8 
Business development / significant events 
10 
Research and development 
11 
Segments 
14 
Financial position and financial performance 
16 
Principles and objectives of financial management 
22 
Controlling system 
22 
Report on risks and opportunities 
23 
Principles of the risk management system 
31 
Internal control system for financial and non-financial reporting 
31 
Corporate governance declaration (unaudited) 
32 
Disclosures pursuant to section 289a and section 315a HGB 
38 
Disclosures pursuant to section 312 (3) AktG 
40 
Forecast 
40 
Events after the end of the reporting period 
40 
Non-financial statement (unaudited) 
41 
EU taxonomy 
46 
IFRS Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
54 
IFRS consolidated income statement 
54 
IFRS consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
55 
IFRS consolidated statement of financial position 
56 
IFRS consolidated statement of cash flows 
58 
IFRS consolidated statement of changes in equity 
59 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
60 
I. Methods and principles 
60 
II. Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 
77 
III. Notes to the statement of comprehensive income 
94 
IV. Segment reporting 
100 
V. Notes to the consolidated statement of cash flows 
103 
VI. Supplementary disclosures on financial instruments 
104 
VII. Objectives and methods of financial risk management 
105 
VIII. Other mandatory disclosures 
108 
Assurance of the legal representatives (unaudited) 
113 
Independent Auditor’s Report 
114 
Financial calendar 
122 
Conferences 
122 
Contact 
123 
Legal notice 
123 
 
 
 
 
Report of the Supervisory Board 
Page 4 
 
 
 
Report of the Supervisory Board 
In accordance with the duties and responsibilities imposed on it by law and the Articles of Associa-
tion, the Supervisory Board continuously informed itself about the business and strategic develop-
ment of the company, advised the Management Board and monitored the management of the com-
pany during the financial year. The Supervisory Board was therefore always aware of the FRIEDRICH 
VORWERK Group's strategy, business policy, planning, risk situation and net assets, financial posi-
tion as well as results of operations. It also reviewed the company's risk management and compli-
ance and is of the opinion that these fulfil the requirements in full. The Supervisory Board was di-
rectly involved in all decisions of particular importance to the company. The Supervisory Board 
granted its approval for individual business transactions where this was required by law, the Articles 
of Association or the rules of procedure. 
The Management Board fulfilled its duty to provide information and informed the Supervisory Board 
regularly, promptly and comprehensively in written and verbal form about the company's economic 
and financial situation, strategic direction, investment plans, risk management and compliance. The 
Supervisory Board discussed all measures requiring its approval in detail with the Management 
Board in advance. The Management Board and the Supervisory Board jointly agreed on the Group's 
strategic direction and development. 
The Supervisory Board held four ordinary meetings in the 2025 financial year. The Management 
Board was represented at all meetings, unless the discussions in the Supervisory Board concerned 
Management Board matters. All members of the Supervisory Board attended all meetings with the 
exception of one cancellation due to illness, whereby participation was partly in digital form.  
The Management Board sent detailed reports and presentations to the members of the Supervisory 
Board in good time before the Supervisory Board meetings. Where decisions requiring approval were 
necessary, the documents contained detailed decision and investment proposals.  
 
Focus of the Supervisory Board's deliberations and resolutions 
At the individual meetings, the Supervisory Board analysed the current business development to-
gether with the Management Board and discussed the strategic direction. The discussions covered 
both the economic situation of the company and that of the individual subsidiaries.  
 
The Supervisory Board meeting on 24 March 2025 focused in particular on 
- the audit of the annual and consolidated financial statements 
- the resolution on the application of the German Corporate Governance Code 
- discussion of the dividend proposal 
- preparations for the Annual General Meeting 
- and the course of business as well as the status of major projects in the first quarter. 
 
At its meeting on 2 June 2025 following the Annual General Meeting, the Supervisory Board dealt 
with the following topics 
- the evaluation of the course of the Annual General Meeting 
- the review of the effectiveness of the compliance management system 
- the status of ongoing major projects and their earnings situation 
- and the initial investment planning for 2026. 
 
The Supervisory Board meeting on 15 September 2025 focused in particular on 
- the continuation of investment planning for 2026 
- the status of ongoing major projects and their earnings situation  
- current political developments relating to the storage and transport of CO2 
- the development and strategic orientation of the Herne site as well as a detailed inspection 
led by the manager responsible on site 
 
 
 
 
Report of the Supervisory Board 
Page 5 
 
 
 
- the self-assessment of the Supervisory Board 
- and the strategic importance of individual major projects currently being tendered for the 
company's development. 
 
The meeting of the Supervisory Board on 9 December 2025 focused on the following topics  
- the medium and long-term development of the Group with regard to the allocation of re-
sources 
- the status of current major projects and their earnings situation, including the current sup-
plementary negotiations 
- the detailed discussion of the 2026 budget  
- and the discussion of various investment projects in organic and inorganic growth. 
 
Committees and composition of the Supervisory Board 
The members of the Supervisory Board are 
- Dr Christof Nesemeier (Chairman) 
- Dr Julian Deutz (Deputy Chairman) 
- Heike von der Heyden 
The Supervisory Board consists of three members. There is a separate Audit Committee, to which all 
Supervisory Board members belong to. Dr Julian Deutz was elected Chairman of the Audit Commit-
tee. The Chairman of the Audit Committee closely monitored the audit of the consolidated financial 
statements of Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE for the 2025 financial year. Due to its size and composi-
tion, the Supervisory Board currently sees no need to form further committees. The term of office of 
the Supervisory Board members ends at the 2026 Annual General Meeting. All Supervisory Board 
members plan to stand for election for a new term of office. 
 
Corporate Governance 
In the knowledge that corporate governance makes a significant contribution to the responsible 
management and control of the company's management with a focus on value creation, the Super-
visory Board continued to deal with topics and issues relating to corporate governance in 2025. To-
gether with the Management Board, the Supervisory Board issued the annual declaration in accord-
ance with section 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) on the recommendations of the 
German Corporate Governance Code. Further information on corporate governance can be found in 
the combined declaration on corporate governance in accordance with section 315 (5) in conjunction 
with section 289f of the German Commercial Code (HGB). The combined declaration on corporate 
governance also contains the corporate governance report prepared by the Management Board and 
Supervisory Board as well as the declaration on the recommendations of the German Corporate Gov-
ernance Code. The combined corporate governance statement is permanently available on the web-
site of Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE at www.friedrich-vorwerk-group.de/en. The members of the Man-
agement Board and the Supervisory Board disclose any conflicts of interest to the Supervisory Board 
without delay.  
 
Audit of the annual and consolidated financial statements 
The Supervisory Board duly commissioned Nexia GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Steuerber-
atungsgesellschaft, Düsseldorf, who were elected as auditors by the Annual General Meeting on 
2 June 2025, to audit the annual financial statements and the consolidated financial statements as 
well as the combined management report and group management report for the 2025 financial year. 
The auditor has confirmed to the Supervisory Board that there are no professional, financial or other 
relationships between the auditor, its executive bodies and audit managers on the one hand and the 
company and the members of its executive bodies on the other that could give rise to doubts about 
its independence. 
The annual financial statements of Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE as at 31 December 2025 and the 
combined management report for Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE and the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group 
were prepared in accordance with the principles of commercial law, the consolidated financial state-
ments as at 31 December 2025 in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards 
 
 
 
 
Report of the Supervisory Board 
Page 6 
 
 
 
(IFRS) and audited by Nexia GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Steuerberatungsgesellschaft, 
Düsseldorf, which was elected by the Annual General Meeting and commissioned by the Chairman 
of the Supervisory Board, and issued with an unqualified audit opinion dated 24 March 2026. 
The Supervisory Board examined the annual financial statements prepared by the Management 
Board, the combined management report for Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE and the FRIEDRICH VOR-
WERK Group, the proposal for the appropriation of profits and the consolidated financial statements 
and discussed them with the auditor at the meeting on 24 March 2026. All of the Supervisory Board's 
questions were answered in detail by the auditor. The Supervisory Board received the auditor's re-
port in good time before the meeting. Based on the final result of the audit conducted by the Super-
visory Board, there were no objections to the annual financial statements, the management report 
and the consolidated financial statements. The consolidated financial statements were approved by 
the Supervisory Board on 24 March 2026. The annual financial statements of Friedrich Vorwerk 
Group SE are thus adopted. 
The Supervisory Board shares the assessment of the Management Board in the combined manage-
ment and group management report and agrees with the Management Board's proposal on the ap-
propriation of net profit, which provides for the distribution of a basic dividend of €0.70 plus a special 
dividend of €0.40 per dividend-bearing share for the 2025 financial year due to the outstanding 
business results. 
The Supervisory Board would like to thank the Management Board, the management teams of the 
subsidiaries and all employees of the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group for their unconditional commit-
ment and record results in the 63rd year of FRIEDRICH VORWERK's existence. 
 
Tostedt, 24 March 2026 
 
The Supervisory Board 
 
Dr Christof Nesemeier 
 
Chairman 
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 7 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
 
General information 
Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE, based in Tostedt, forms the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group together with 
its subsidiaries. 
The separate financial statements of Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE were prepared in accordance with 
the provisions of the German Commercial Code (HGB), taking into account the supplementary pro-
visions of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG), while the consolidated financial statements 
were prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) of the In-
ternational Accounting Standards Board (IASB), including the interpretations of the IFRS Interpre-
tations Committee (IFRIC) on IFRS as applicable in the European Union, and the supplementary pro-
visions of commercial law to be applied in accordance with section 315e (1) HGB. 
The combined management and group management report comprises the FRIEDRICH VORWERK 
Group (hereinafter also referred to as the "Group" or "FRIEDRICH VORWERK") as well as the parent 
company, Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE. They were prepared in accordance with the provisions of the 
German Commercial Code (HGB) and German Accounting Standard (GAS) No. 20. Supplementary 
information on the annual financial statements of Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE can be found in the 
section on the results of operations, financial position and net assets. 
Unless otherwise stated, all information in this report relates to 31 December 2025 or the financial 
year from 1 January to 31 December 2025. Rounding differences may occur in percentages and fig-
ures in this report. 
For reasons of readability alone, the simultaneous use of masculine, feminine or linguistic forms of 
other genders has been omitted. Unless otherwise stated, all references to persons apply to all gen-
ders. 
 
Business model 
FRIEDRICH VORWERK is a key beneficiary of the European energy transition. Founded in 1962, our 
name has always stood for a high level of technical expertise, reliable work and innovative solutions 
in the design, realisation and operational management of energy infrastructure in our three core 
markets of natural gas, electricity and hydrogen as well as the adjacent areas (district heating net-
works, CO2 liquefaction and transport, biogas treatment and feed-in as well as drinking water and 
wastewater pipelines). 
Thanks to our integrated turnkey approach and a large number of proprietary components and tech-
nologies, we are able to offer our customers high-quality, customised solutions from a single source. 
We thus enable energy suppliers, grid operators, industrial companies and local authorities to oper-
ate complex energy grids and systems. 
As one of the most efficient German companies in the areas of Planning & Design (planning & process 
engineering), Energy Grids (pipeline and underground power cable construction), Energy Transfor-
mation (plant construction) and Service & Operations (service & operation), we cover all the key 
steps in the value chain. In this way, we not only help our customers to operate reliable and cost-
efficient energy infrastructure, but also make a significant contribution to the security of energy sup-
ply in Europe. Our basis for this is the synthesis of state-of-the-art technology and the knowledge 
and experience of around 2,250 qualified employees at 14 locations in Germany and Europe. 
The course of business within a financial year is in general subject to a certain degree of seasonality. 
The majority of energy infrastructure projects are realised outdoors, which means that progress de-
pends on various factors and climatic conditions such as temperatures and rainfall. As a result, the 
first quarter in particular is typically weaker in terms of revenue and profitability over the course of 
the year. 
The energy transition is leading to a fundamental reorganisation of the European energy markets, 
from which we are continuing to benefit significantly in our core markets of natural gas, electricity 
and hydrogen, as well as increasingly in district heating. FRIEDRICH VORWERK therefore continues 
to focus on dynamic and profitable growth - particularly in markets where integrated solutions are 
in demand. 
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 8 
 
 
 
We have set ourselves the goal of continuously aligning our service and product portfolio with the 
requirements of our core markets and the needs of our customers. We are pursuing this path not 
only by investing in our products and technologies as well as in our locations and employees, but 
also through selective and value-generating acquisitions. 
Economic report 
General economic conditions 
In 2025, the global economy was robust despite the negative impact of trade conflicts, albeit with 
significant regional differences. Negative effects from changes in trade policy were outweighed by 
strong investment impetus in the technology sector, particularly in the field of artificial intelligence. 
This momentum is more evident in North America and Asia than in other regions. Support was also 
provided by expansive fiscal and monetary policies, continued favourable financing conditions over-
all and the high adaptability of the private sector. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) expects 
the global, price-adjusted gross domestic product (GDP) to grow by 3.3% in 2025 as a whole, with 
economic development varying greatly from region to region and over the course of the year. The 
growth rate corresponds to the growth in global GDP in the previous year.  
Central bank interest rates are converging in the advanced economies. The European Central Bank 
(ECB) has further reduced its key interest rate (deposit facility) from 3.0% to 2.0% since December 
2024, while the US Federal Reserve also began to cut its interest rates again in September 2025 in 
light of increasing concerns about the labour market. The average annual global inflation rate for 
2025 is estimated at 4.1%, which is significantly lower than the previous year's high figure of 5.8%.  
According to the IMF, price-adjusted US GDP is expected to increase by 2.1% in 2025. Compared to 
the GDP growth of 2.8% achieved in the previous year, the new trade and immigration policy 
measures have created a measurable headwind for the US economy in 2025. However, the additional 
burden caused by the shutdown of the US federal government in October and November is estimated 
to have been offset by the significant upturn in technology investment in 2025. In China, economic 
policy stimuli supported the domestic economy. According to IMF estimates, the GDP growth rate of 
5.0% remained at the previous year's level and was supported by private consumption and exports 
to countries outside the United States. 
Growth in the eurozone remained subdued and highly uneven, with an estimated increase in price-
adjusted GDP of 1.5% compared to the previous year. With GDP growth of around 3% each, Poland 
and Spain reported significantly higher GDP growth than Germany, Italy and France, which all rec-
orded growth of less than 1%. At the beginning of the year, higher exports to the US ahead of ex-
pected import tariff increases supported economic output. After two quarters of weak expansion, 
the fourth quarter saw a clear upturn in activity, particularly in the service sector, which compen-
sated for the ongoing weakness in the manufacturing industry. Nevertheless, the European labour 
market remained strong and the unemployment rate in the EU was at a historic low of 5.9% at the 
end of the year, as in the previous year. The inflation rate fell to 2.3% in the EU (previous year: 2.7%) 
and to 1.9% in the eurozone (previous year: 2.4%). Falling energy and service prices in particular 
contributed to the reduction in the inflation rate. The IMF forecasts economic growth of 1.3% for the 
eurozone in 2026.  
In Germany, price-adjusted gross domestic product increased slightly by 0.2% in 2025, following a 
decline of 0.5% in the previous year. The slight increase is due in particular to higher private and 
public consumption, whereas the general weakness in investment continued and the German export 
industry faced strong headwinds from higher US tariffs, the appreciation of the euro and stronger 
competition from China. Consumer prices in Germany increased by an annual average of 2.2% in 
2025 compared to 2024. According to the Federal Statistical Office (Destatis), the inflation rate for 
2025 therefore remained at the same level as in the previous year (previous year: 2.2%). While the 
inflation rate for services was above average at 3.5%, the price increase for goods was comparatively 
low at 1.0%, with lower energy prices also having an impact here. The IMF is forecasting higher 
economic growth of 1.1% for Germany in 2026. 
General industry environment 
The FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group plays an active role in the realisation of a secure and future-ori-
ented energy infrastructure and is therefore an important driver of the European energy transition. 
In 2025, the market for products and services in the field of energy infrastructure continued to be 
characterised by the ongoing energy transition. According to the German government's plans, at 
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 9 
 
 
 
least 80% of Germany's gross electricity consumption is to be covered by renewable energies by 
2030 in order to achieve climate protection targets and become independent of fossil fuel imports.  
The expansion of renewable energies in Germany continued in 2025, with renewable energies ac-
counting for 59% of total electricity generation in Germany. This corresponds to a slight increase of 
0.3 percentage points compared to the previous year and is mainly due to the expansion of photo-
voltaics and an above-average number of sunshine hours in summer.  
Due to the ambitious climate targets and the changed geopolitical security environment as a result 
of the Russia-Ukraine war, demand for energy infrastructure services is expected to continue to grow 
strongly. This particularly affects the electricity grid, which needs to be significantly expanded due 
to the changed energy mix. However, significant investments must also be made in the infrastructure 
for gas in order to be able to fall back on substitutes in times of low electricity production from 
renewable energy. Against this backdrop, the German government agreed on a new power plant 
strategy at a coalition committee meeting on 13 November 2025. According to this strategy, eight 
gigawatts of new, dispatchable electricity capacities generated by new gas-fired power plants are to 
be put out to tender in 2026. These are to go into operation by 2031 and be convertible to hydrogen 
operation. 
The development of a hydrogen economy is a key building block for the success of the energy tran-
sition. However, according to the annual report on energy supply in 2025 published by the German 
Association of Energy and Water Industries (BDEW), the development of a climate-neutral and de-
carbonised hydrogen economy in Germany is still at an early stage. At 93.5%, the majority of the 
hydrogen produced has been obtained from fossil sources, while climate-neutral hydrogen produced 
from water electrolysis only accounted for 0.5%. The hydrogen pipelines required for the construc-
tion of the 9,040-kilometre hydrogen core network in Germany, which was approved by the Federal 
Network Agency in 2024, are to be gradually commissioned by 2032. Existing natural gas pipelines 
can be converted for approx. 60% of the network, while the remaining approx. 40% will have to be 
newly built. In the fourth quarter of 2025, the conversion of existing natural gas pipelines with a 
route length of 400 km between the Baltic Sea region and Sachsen-Anhalt for hydrogen transport 
has been announced. The Federal Network Agency had originally planned investments of €18.9 bil-
lion for the core network. However, in the first draft of the Gas and Hydrogen Network Development 
Plan 2025, which was published on 3 March 2026, the network operators are now assuming a cost 
increase of around 30%. At the same time, individual projects may be postponed. 
With Germany's exit from nuclear energy and the planned end of coal-fired power generation, the 
German electricity grid is going to be further expanded and optimised in order to accommodate 
growing, supra-regional electricity transport, such as wind power from northern Germany to the 
south and west. In total, the need for grid expansion amounts to around 16,800 kilometres of extra-
high voltage lines. Of these, around 9,600 km of power lines are the responsibility of the Federal 
Network Agency, of which a further 2,000 km were approved in 2025 so that construction can begin.  
The amendment to the Carbon Dioxide Storage Act came into force on 28 November 2025. It creates 
a legal framework for the development of a CO2 storage and transport infrastructure. Current esti-
mates put the investment volume for the realisation of the pipelines required for CO2 transport at 
€15 to 20 billion. 
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 10 
 
 
 
Business development / significant events 
In the reporting year, FRIEDRICH VORWERK once again achieved outstanding organic revenue 
growth combined with a significant increase in profitability, making the 2025 financial year an abso-
lute record year in the company's history. In addition to several major projects in land cable, pipeline 
and plant construction realised in the past financial year, this development was also driven by a large 
number of highly profitable small and medium-sized projects as well as sustained growth in staff 
numbers. 
On 18 March 2025, the German Bundestag approved a comprehensive debt-financed infrastructure 
investment budget in the order of €500 billion for the next twelve years. These investments could 
have a positive impact on FRIEDRICH VORWERK's business activities and further growth in the Ad-
jacent Opportunities segment, among others. At the same time, the new government intends to lev-
erage further potential to speed up procedures in the planning and approval of infrastructure pro-
jects, which may have a positive impact on the ability to plan and speed up the implementation of 
complex construction projects in all of the Group's segments.  
After FRIEDRICH VORWERK had already won two sections (24 km and 43 km) of the South German 
natural gas pipeline (SEL) in the last two years as part of a joint venture (ARGE) with equal rights, the 
Group was awarded the contract for the third, approximately 61 km long, section of the pipeline by 
the transmission system operator terranets bw in May 2025. Work already started in the summer of 
2025 and is therefore partly running parallel to the second section, which has already been started. 
With a total length of 250 kilometres from Lampertheim in Hesse to Bissingen in Bavaria, the SEL is 
one of the largest pipeline construction projects in Germany. By connecting modern gas-fired power 
plants to the existing grid, it secures the supply of heat and electricity and thus enables the phase-
out of coal-fired power generation. As the first pipeline in the country with a connection to the Euro-
pean transport routes, it will transport hydrogen from 2030 on. The SEL will thus create important 
prerequisites for a CO2-neutral energy supply for the Rhine-Neckar region and the greater Stuttgart 
area. The pipeline will be built in stages, depending on how demand actually develops over the next 
ten years. After the three sections that had been commissioned, the remaining sections will be suc-
cessively put out to tender in the coming years.  
Also in May 2025, FRIEDRICH VORWERK was awarded the civil engineering contract for an approxi-
mately 43 km-long section of the SuedLink high-voltage direct current line by transmission system 
operator TenneT as part of a working group. The first preparatory construction measures on the sec-
tion already started in the second quarter of 2025; the planned completion date is the end of 2026. 
Due to sensitive ecosystems and numerous crossings of roads and bodies of water, significant parts 
of the route will be realised using the closed construction method by means of horizontal directional 
drilling. As part of the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group, Bohlen & Doyen has extensive capacities and 
decades of experience in the field of horizontal drilling technology, meaning that these specialised 
services can also be covered by its in-house resources. The SuedLink project planned by the trans-
mission system operators Tennet and TransnetBW is one of the largest infrastructure projects of the 
energy transition, which is intended to transport wind energy from the north of Germany to the con-
sumption centres in the south via underground cable connections. With a total length of around 700 
kilometres and a transmission capacity of four gigawatts, it uses high-voltage direct current (HVDC) 
transmission technology for low-loss energy transport. SuedLink makes a significant contribution to 
Germany's CO2-neutral energy supply and thus supports the German government's climate targets.  
In the second half of the financial year, FRIEDRICH VORWERK was also awarded the contracts to 
realise the Energy Transmission Lines (ETL) 182 and ETL 179.200 as part of a working group by the 
transmission system operator Gasunie Deutschland. The two projects have a combined length of 
over 100 kilometres. The first preparatory construction measures were already started in the fourth 
quarter of 2025, while the main construction measures are scheduled for 2026, meaning that com-
missioning is scheduled in 2027. The background of the planned pipelines is the significant increase 
in demand for gas transport, which is expected to be caused by the new LNG import terminals being 
built in Brunsbüttel and Stade/Bützfleth. The new pipelines with a diameter of DN 1400 and DN 900 
are intended to connect the two network points "Elbe Süd" in the district of Stade and "Achim" in the 
district of Verden as well as the Bützfleth LNG terminal and thus enable nationwide transmission via 
the German gas pipeline network. The fastest possible realisation of the project thus serves the cen-
tral interest in a secure and diversified gas supply in Germany. The LNG Acceleration Act passed by 
the German government therefore recognises the energy industry necessity for this project to supply 
gas to households and industry. 
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 11 
 
 
 
The successes achieved by the subsidiary 5C-Tech GmbH during the reporting year were also partic-
ularly encouraging, especially given the high volume of orders received in the pipeline construction 
segment. FRIEDRICH VORWERK bundles research and development projects in the field of auto-
mated welding technology in the 5C-Tech GmbH. In the reporting year, the PX-II automatic welding 
machine, designed for pipeline prefabrication, was put into operation successfully on two large pipe-
line projects. With the help of the new technology, welding work can be carried out faster and there-
fore more environmentally friendly. The automated process can also achieve even higher welding 
quality and reduce labour intensity. This opens up new market potential in international pipeline 
construction.  
On 6 November 2025, the German Bundestag passed the Carbon Dioxide Storage and Transport Act 
(KSpTG), thereby creating a legal framework for the development of a CO2 storage and transport in-
frastructure. Current estimates put the investment volume for the realisation of the pipelines re-
quired at €15 to 20 billion. The Federal Council gave its approval on 21 November 2025. 
Works on the major A-Nord project made rapid progress in the reporting year, contributing around 
€250 million revenue. The focus of activities was on the construction of the cable conduit system, 
including the necessary civil engineering work and trenchless installation using the horizontal direc-
tional drilling method. A major milestone was the completion of the Rhine crossing in the southern 
section of the cable route. Overall completion is currently expected for summer 2027. 
In the second half of 2025, work on the western district heating system connection in Hamburg was 
also successfully completed after a construction period of around three years. The district heating 
pipeline is a key component for connecting the planned harbour energy park to the district heating 
network and thus for shutting down the coal-fired power plant in Wedel. FRIEDRICH VORWERK has 
already been commissioned with the realisation of further district heating sections in the reporting 
year, including in Hamburg, Berlin and Leipzig.  
Capacity utilisation in the "Energy Transformation" division was again very high in the financial year. 
Work was carried out in parallel on four substations and two large compressor stations. In addition, 
work on one of the first large-scale electrolysers in Germany (Lingen) was successfully completed. 
As part of the GET H2 Nukleus project, RWE is building an electrolysis capacity of 300 megawatts in 
three expansion stages on the site of the Emsland gas-fired power plant. Commissioning is expected 
in the first half of 2026. Capacity utilisation in prefabrication at the Wiesmoor site was essentially 
ensured by the construction of several large-volume biogas treatment and biogas feed-in plants.  
  
Other significant events 
On 27 February 2025, the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group signed an agreement to acquire the 
Wischhafen branch including the Stade location of Gerhard Rode Rohrleitungsbau GmbH & Co. KG 
with effect from 1 April 2025. With around 40 employees, the branch is expected to generate annual 
revenue in the mid-single-digit million € range. At the same time, the employees could already make 
a valuable contribution to the realisation of the Group's ongoing major projects from the second 
quarter of 2025 onwards. 
The Management Board and Supervisory Board of Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE proposed to the An-
nual General Meeting on 2 June 2025, that a dividend of €0.30 per dividend-bearing share be dis-
tributed for the 2024 financial year and that the remaining amount be carried forward to new ac-
count. The Annual General Meeting approved the company's proposal by a large majority. The divi-
dend was paid out on 5 June 2025.  
With effect from 1 August 2025, the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group took over the Brunn branch of 
Christoffers GmbH. It is expected that the branch with its approximately 35 employees will generate 
annual revenue in the low single-digit million range. At the same time, the takeover will significantly 
strengthen the Group's regional presence in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern. 
Research and development 
Innovation, increased efficiency and the continuous development of our core competences and tech-
nologies are central to the corporate philosophy of the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group. Global mega-
trends in technology and society are also accelerating our research and development activities. 
Our research and development activities are generally project-based and in most cases are carried 
out together with one or more customers in order to optimise an existing product or develop a new 
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 12 
 
 
 
product to meet their specific needs. To a limited extent, we also carry out research and development 
activities focussing on technologies, plants and processes that have the potential to support or even 
promote the growth of our Natural Gas, Electricity, Clean Hydrogen and Adjacent Opportunities busi-
ness areas due to their general applicability. These include H2-capable components and technolo-
gies for CO2 reduction as well as more efficient and practicable construction processes and technol-
ogies to improve project execution and increase customer benefits. Our research and development 
efforts are aimed at delivering innovations with high market acceptance, rapid adoption potential 
and far-reaching upgrade potential for existing infrastructures. In doing so, we endeavour to combine 
the real market experience of our engineers with scientific support from nearby universities in the 
form of project-related collaboration. 
FRIEDRICH VORWERK bundles research and development projects in the field of automated welding 
technology in its subsidiary 5C-Tech GmbH. In the reporting period, the PX-II automatic welding 
machine, designed for pipeline prefabrication, was put into operation and successfully utilised on 
two large pipeline projects. With the help of the new technology, welding work can be carried out 
faster and therefore more environmentally friendly. The automated process also enables an even 
higher welding quality to be achieved. 
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 13 
 
 
 
Group structure 
Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE is the parent company of the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group. In addition 
to Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE, a total of 19 subsidiaries (previous year: 19) were directly or indi-
rectly included in the consolidated financial statements as at 31 December 2025.  
Hempel Construction B.V., Amsterdam, Netherlands, was consolidated for the first time on 1 Sep-
tember 2025. Due to the merger of Seyde und Coburg Kathodischer Korrosionsschutz GmbH with 
Vorwerk Pipeline- und Anlagenservice GmbH, the company is no longer reported separately in the 
scope of consolidation. 
 
Companies included in the consolidated financial statements
Shareholding
Name and registered office of the company
in %
 
 
Subsidiaries (consolidated)
Friedrich Vorwerk Management SE, Tostedt, Germany
100.00
Friedrich Vorwerk SE & Co KG, Tostedt, Germany
89.93
5C-Tech GmbH, Tostedt, Germany
58.45
Bohlen & Doyen Anlagenbau Holding GmbH, Tostedt, Germany
89.93
Bohlen & Doyen Service und Anlagentechnik GmbH, Wiesmoor, Germany
89.93
Bohlen & Doyen Bau Holding GmbH, Tostedt, Germany
89.93
Bohlen & Doyen Bau GmbH, Wiesmoor, Germany
89.93
EAS Einhaus Anlagenservice GmbH, Geeste, Germany
89.93
European Pipeline Services GmbH, Tostedt, Germany
89.93
Gottfried Puhlmann GmbH Havelländische Bauunternehmung, Ludwigsfelde, Germany
89.93
Gottfried Puhlmann GmbH, Marne, Germany
89.93
Gottfried Puhlmann Hamburg GmbH, Tostedt, Germany
89.93
Hempel Aluminiumbau GmbH, Storkow (Mark), Germany
89.93
Hempel Construction B.V., Amsterdam, Netherlands
89.93
KORUPP GmbH, Twist, Germany
89.93
Vorwerk - ASA GmbH, Herne, Germany
89.93
Vorwerk Gas Technology GmbH, Tostedt, Germany
89.93
Vorwerk Pipeline- und Anlagenservice GmbH, Petersberg, Germany
89.93
Vorwerk Stade GmbH, Tostedt, Germany
89.93
 
 
 
In addition, there are various shareholdings in joint ventures (ARGEs), which are established tempo-
rarily in the course of the realisation of (major) projects and are listed in the notes to the consolidated 
financial statements. 
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 14 
 
 
 
Segments 
Due to the different market perspectives, FRIEDRICH VORWERK distinguishes between the four 
business segments Natural Gas, Electricity, Clean Hydrogen and Adjacent Opportunities, which are 
described in more detail below.  
Our Natural Gas segment comprises infrastructure services and product solutions for the transport 
and conversion of raw natural gas into processed natural gas for our customers. This takes place in 
a series of steps from the transport of natural gas through high-pressure pipelines to processing in 
filter and separation plants, compressor stations, storage and metering systems, LNG terminals and 
gas pressure control and metering stations. We generally design our natural gas infrastructure solu-
tions according to our customers' individual requirements so that they can benefit from lower 
CO2 emissions when operating our systems and maintain very high operational safety standards. We 
supply such energy infrastructure solutions for natural gas projects of many leading European trans-
mission system operators and certain energy and industrial companies, including Gasunie, Gascade, 
Open Grid Europe and Ontras. Revenue in the Natural Gas segment totalled €184.8 million in the 
2025 financial year, slightly above the previous year's level (€171.8 million). EBITDA totalled 
€59.7 million (previous year: €39.0 million). At 32.3%, the EBITDA margin is significantly higher than 
the previous year's EBITDA margin (22.7%). The improvement in the profitability of this segment is 
mainly the result of higher earnings contributions from ARGEs and concluded supplementary nego-
tiations, which had a positive impact on profitability in the mid-single-digit million range. The order 
backlog totalled €160.4 million as at the balance sheet date (previous year: €129.2 million). The 
increase in the order backlog is due to the acquisition of several major projects in the pipeline sector 
during the financial year. 
Our Electricity segment focuses on providing the infrastructure for the underground transport and 
conversion of electricity generated from climate-friendly, non-fossil energy sources such as wind, 
sun, water and renewable raw materials. Our expertise in the field of electricity transport and con-
version focuses on the landing of offshore electricity cables and the installation of high-voltage un-
derground cables through which this electricity is transported in transmission grids. At the end of 
these cables are connection points in the form of substations and inverters as well as power-to-heat 
plants, which connect the transmission grids with local energy distribution grids and are also part of 
our range of services. The adoption of the amended Energy Line Expansion Act in 2015 created the 
legal framework for the rapid expansion of underground power lines, which led to new projects for 
laying underground cables. As Germany is currently in the process of phasing out coal and nuclear 
power or has already done so, renewable energy sources are becoming an essential factor in the 
clean energy transition. Similar to our Natural Gas segment, we develop customised solutions for 
our customers' individual applications. We offer such energy infrastructure solutions for the opera-
tion of many leading European transmission system operators and certain energy and industrial com-
panies, including Amprion, 50Hertz and TenneT. Revenue in the Electricity segment almost doubled 
year on year to €364.8 million in the 2025 financial year (previous year: €184.4 million). The main 
driver of this significant revenue growth is the A-Nord cable route, which will also make a major 
contribution to revenue in the 2026 financial year. EBITDA totalled €59.9 million (previ-
ous year: €20.5 million). At 16.4%, the EBITDA margin is above the previous year's level of 11.1%. 
As in the other segments, profitability in this segment benefited from favourable weather conditions 
and the high-quality order backlog. At the same time, segment profitability in the reporting year was 
below that of the other segments, which is mainly due to A-Nord's new IPA (integrated project de-
livery) contract model, which is based on a cost-plus incentive fee remuneration structure with a 
bonus-malus scheme and at the same time significantly reduces the Group's risk exposure. The order 
backlog fell from €903.8 million as at 31 December 2024 to €664.1 million as at the reporting date 
due to the very high level of revenue recognition. 
Our Clean Hydrogen segment comprises product solutions and infrastructure services for converting 
energy from climate-friendly energy sources into clean hydrogen and transporting it to end 
consumers. This is done through a series of processing steps from the conversion of renewable 
energy through an electrolysis process to the processing and transport of the resulting clean 
hydrogen through storage facilities, compressor stations, pipelines and gas pressure regulation and 
measurement systems. We use our expertise in our Natural Gas segment to handle complex gases 
at high pressure and in large quantities and offer energy infrastructure solutions ranging from the 
construction of individual components to fully integrated, turnkey solutions. We expect our Clean 
Hydrogen segment to play an increasingly important role in the growth of our business and we are 
committed to investing significant resources in the development of this segment. We are committed 
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 15 
 
 
 
to providing these solutions to many leading European transmission system operators as well as 
certain energy and industrial companies, many of which are long-standing customers or end users 
of our solutions. Revenue in the Clean Hydrogen segment remained almost unchanged in the 
reporting year at €28.1 million (previous year: €26.3 million ) and thus contributed 4% to Group 
revenue. Nevertheless, in October 2024, the Federal Network Agency laid the foundations for the 
development of the hydrogen core network. In the reporting year, the Group already implemented 
the first core grid projects - albeit predominantly conversion projects and smaller new construction 
projects. The tenders for the first major hydrogen pipeline projects are expected in the short to 
medium term, meaning that this segment's share of revenue and earnings will continue to increase 
in the future. EBITDA totalled €9.3 million (previous year: €4.4 million). At 33.2% (previous year: 
16.9%), the EBITDA margin is significantly higher than the previous year's EBITDA margin, which is 
partly due to higher earnings contributions from ARGEs. The order backlog as at the reporting date 
totalled €43.7 million (previous year: €44.7 million ). 
In the Adjacent Opportunities segment, we also focus on related turnkey technologies, such as the 
treatment and purification of biogenic and synthetic gases, heat extraction technologies used in dis-
trict heating and solutions for the transport of district heating, drinking water and waste water as 
well as special solutions for the chemical and petrochemical industries. District heating is consid-
ered a key building block for the sustainable decarbonisation of the building sector and therefore 
offers significant opportunities for FRIEDRICH VORWERK in the context of the energy transition. The 
same applies to drinking water and wastewater infrastructure, as a considerable investment backlog 
has accumulated in this sub-segment over the last few decades. The Adjacent Opportunities seg-
ment generated revenue of €126.6 million in the reporting year, slightly above the previous year's 
level (€115.8 million). EBITDA in the reporting year of €34.3 million is significantly higher than the 
previous year's EBITDA (€16.6 million). The EBITDA margin is therefore 27.1% compared to 14.3% 
in the previous year. The improvement in profitability in this segment is mainly due to successful 
project completions in the reporting year and concluded supplementary negotiations. The order 
backlog as at the balance sheet date totalled €153.3 million (previous year: €110.0 million).  
Employees 
The success of the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group is due in particular to the expertise and commitment 
of its employees. For this reason, employees are at the centre of the company. We pursue the goal 
of recruiting, developing and retaining employees so that we are optimally prepared for the future 
requirements of the expansion and reorganisation of the European energy infrastructure. 
The measures established in recent years to improve our employer brand and attractiveness, which 
include, for example, doubling the allowance for all employees working out on on site, led to signifi-
cant recruitment success both in the previous year and in the reporting year.  
The number of employees as at 31 December 2025, excluding trainees, was 2,243 and therefore 
significantly higher than in the previous year (1,948). In addition, the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group 
employed 160 trainees and dual students at the end of the year (previous year: 129). The increase 
in the workforce is mainly the result of the Group's organic growth, with the recruitment of new em-
ployees from abroad playing an important role. Recruiting, qualifying and retaining employees has 
become a key success factor for our company. Accordingly, the commitment to and investment in a 
sustainable and superior human resources policy has been significantly strengthened in order to 
secure the company's future growth. 
In addition to the measures described for acquiring new expertise by hiring qualified specialists, the 
FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group is also interested in training and developing its own employees. The 
FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group believes that supporting, challenging and training its employees is a 
key success factor. The management and senior employees who have a significant influence on the 
success of business activities receive variable salary components that are also dependent on the 
results achieved and the increase in value of the Group. 
Further information on employees can be found in the employee matters section of the non-financial 
statement in accordance with section 289b HGB.  
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 16 
 
 
Financial position and financial performance 
The following section will first discuss Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE and then the FRIEDRICH VOR-
WERK Group. 
 
Notes to the separate financial statements of Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE (HGB) 
The annual financial statements of Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE for the 2025 financial year were pre-
pared in accordance with the provisions of the German Commercial Code (HGB), taking into account 
the supplementary provisions of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG). 
Results of operations 
Other operating income at Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE totalled €0.6 million (previous year: €0.8 mil-
lion) and mainly comprised costs passed on to subsidiaries and, in the previous year, reversals of 
impairment losses on securities held as financial assets. 
Other operating expenses in the financial year totalling €1.0 million (previous year: €0.9 million) 
mainly comprise legal and consulting costs, costs of the ongoing stock market listing and Supervisory 
Board remuneration.  
Income from subsidiaries totalling €14.9 million (previous year: €17.0 million) includes the profit 
allocation from Friedrich Vorwerk SE & Co. KG.  
Income from other long-term securities totalling €0.0 million (previous year: €0.1 million) includes 
income from dividends and the sale of financial assets. 
Other interest and similar income for the financial year totalled €5.3 million (previous year: €7.3 mil-
lion) and resulted from intragroup loans to Friedrich Vorwerk SE & Co. KG and from bank balances.  
After taking into account income tax expenses totalling €3.1 million (previous year: €3.6 million), 
the net profit for the year amounted to €16.7 million (previous year: €20.6 million). 
Net assets and financial position 
As at 31 December 2025, the issued capital of Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE amounted to €20.0 mil-
lion (previous year: €20.0 million).  
The company's capital reserves remained unchanged at €89.7 million (previous year: €89.7 million).  
The balance sheet total increased from €153.9 million to €164.6 million. On the liabilities side, the 
increase is mainly due to the increase in equity. On the assets side, the main items recognised are 
bank balances (€102.8 million; previous year: €33.7 million), receivables from subsidiaries 
(€28.5 million; previous year: €96.4 million) and participating interest in subsidiaries (€19.7 million; 
previous year: €19.7 million). The increase in total assets is mainly due to higher cash and cash 
equivalents. 
The change in cash and cash equivalents totalled €69.1 million in the reporting year (previ-
ous year: €33.2 million). This was primarily due to the cash flow from operating activities totalling 
€86.6 million (previous year: €35.5 million), which mainly resulted from the reduction in receivables 
and interest income. This was offset by payments for investments in financial assets and securities 
totalling €11.5 million (previous year: cash inflow of €0.3 million). The cash flow from financing ac-
tivities totalling €-6.0 million (previous year: €-2.4 million) is attributable to the payment of the div-
idend to the shareholders of Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE.  
Overall statement on the separate financial statements 
Overall, the Management Board considers the financial position and financial performance of Frie-
drich Vorwerk Group SE to be very positive. 
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 17 
 
 
FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group 
Results of operations 
The key earnings figures include IFRS-related valuation effects and one-off expenses that are not 
used for corporate management purposes. The management therefore manages the Group on the 
basis of adjusted earnings figures, which reflect the Group's operating profitability and development 
in a much more transparent and sustainable manner. 
In terms of order intake, the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group once again benefited significantly from its 
excellent positioning in the rapidly growing market for energy infrastructure in the 2025 financial 
year and acquired numerous new projects in all segments. The major new projects, all of which are 
being realised as joint ventures (ARGE), mainly include the Energy Transmission Lines (ETL) 182 and 
ETL 179.200, the third section of the South German Gas Pipeline (SEL 03) and a construction lot for 
the SuedLink high-voltage direct current line. In total, the Group generated order intake of €538.1 
million in the financial year (previous year: €685.2 million), which represents the Group's own con-
tribution to the major projects carried out in ARGEs (excluding the share provided by third parties) 
as well as the order volumes from own projects. By contrast, the total project volume acquired, which 
also includes the proportionate joint venture order volumes in addition to order intake, totalled 
€990.8 million in the financial year and increased by 28.7% compared to the previous year. The di-
vergent development of both key figures can be attributed to the fact that the order volumes of indi-
vidual projects and construction phases have increased significantly on average and that ARGEs are 
therefore being formed more frequently to realise these construction projects. 
The FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group generated revenue of €704.3 million in the 2025 financial year 
(previous year: €498.4 million). This corresponds to outstanding growth of 41.3% compared to the 
previous year. Revenue growth was very pleasing in all quarters, with the first and fourth quarter 
standing out in particular. The major project A-Nord was the main driver of growth in the first quarter, 
while the fourth quarter benefited above all from very favourable weather conditions. Another im-
portant prerequisite for the continued growth is the very successful recruitment work in the last two 
financial years. As a result, the number of employees (excluding trainees and students) increased 
again by 15.1% to 2,243 compared to the last balance sheet date. 
The FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group generated other income totalling €29.6 million (previ-
ous year: €11.9 million). This was mainly due to the increase in income from ARGEs from €6.0 million 
in the previous year to €21.0 million in the reporting year, which resulted from a higher proportion 
of (major) projects carried out in ARGE. In addition, income from the offsetting of benefits in kind 
(€2.0 million. ; previous year: €1.6 million), income from own work capitalised (€1.8 million; previ-
ous year: €0.7 million), income from renting and leasing (€1.2 million; previous year: €1.1 million), 
reimbursements and government grants (€1.0 million; previous year: €0.7 million), income from in-
surance compensation (€0.5 million; previous year: €0.7 million), income from the reversal of provi-
sions (€0.5 million; previous year: €0.6 million) and other income (€1.6 million; previous year: €0.5 
million). 
The cost of materials increased from €237.5 million in the previous year to €323.0 million in the 
reporting year. This includes expenses for purchased services totalling €235.3 million (previ-
ous year: €175.7 million) and expenses for raw materials and supplies amounting to €87.7 million 
(previous year: €61.7 million). The material cost ratio fell by 1.8 percentage points compared to the 
previous year to 45.9% (previous year: 47.7%). This is due on the one hand to a higher level of ver-
tical integration and on the other to a change in the composition of the order backlog. 
Personnel expenses rose from €149.3 million in the previous year to €183.8 million in the reporting 
year. The increase is mainly due to the year-on-year rise in the average number of employees (+15%) 
as well as wage and salary increases. The personnel expenses ratio fell from 30.0% in the previous 
year to 26.1% in the reporting year due to higher productivity and increased machine intensity. As 
at the balance sheet date, the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group had 2,243 employees (previ-
ous year: 1,948). 
Other operating expenses totalled €63.8 million in the 2025 financial year (previous year: €42.9 mil-
lion). This mainly includes rental and leasing expenses for short-term leases (€28.8 million; previ-
ous year: €12.5 million), maintenance expenses (€12.8 million; previous year: €10.2 million), travel 
and vehicle expenses (€6.9 million; previous year: €4.7 million), other personnel-related expenses 
(€2.2 million; previous year: €1.9 million), insurance premiums (€2.1 million; previ-
ous year: €1.6 million), training and development costs (€1.4 million; previous year: €1.3 million), 
research and development costs (€1.4 million; previous year: €0.0 million), fees and contributions 
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 18 
 
 
(€1.1 million; previous year: €1.0 million) and legal and consulting costs (€0.8 million; previ-
ous year: €1.0 million). 
The FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group thus generated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and 
amortisation (EBITDA) of €163.3 million in the 2025 financial year (previous year: €80.5 million.) 
This corresponds to a significant increase by more than 100% compared to the previous year. The 
EBITDA margin rose by 7 percentage points to 23.2%. The significant improvement in profitability 
over the course of the financial year is the result of the high-quality order backlog, excellent project 
execution and higher earnings contributions from ARGEs. 
The adjusted depreciation and amortisation of €26.5 million (previous year: €21.1 million) relates 
to scheduled depreciation of property, plant and equipment as well as amortisation of intangible 
assets. The increase compared to the previous year is due to the significant investments in property, 
plant and equipment as part of the growth strategy. The application of IFRS 16 resulted in depreci-
ation and amortisation of €2.9 million in the reporting year (previous year: €2.1 million). Deprecia-
tion of assets in the amount of €0.1 million (previous year: €0.2 million), which were capitalised as 
part of purchase price allocations, was adjusted. 
This resulted in adjusted EBIT (earnings before interest and taxes) of €136.8 million (previ-
ous year: €59.4 million). This corresponds to an adjusted EBIT margin of 19.4% (previ-
ous year: 11.9%). EBIT before adjustments totalled €136.7 million (previous year: €59.3 million). 
The net finance cost totalled €-8.8 million compared to €-4.0 million in the previous year. The bal-
ance of interest income and interest expenses totalled €0.9 million (previous year: €-0.2 million). In 
addition, the earnings shares of the non-controlling shareholders of Friedrich Vorwerk SE & Co. KG - 
primarily the 10% limited partnership interest attributable to CEO Torben Kleinfeldt - are recognised 
in the financial result. 
The resulting adjusted earnings before taxes (EBT) totalled €128.0 million (previous year: €55.5 mil-
lion). EBT before adjustments totalled €127.9 million in the reporting year (previous year:€55.3 mil-
lion). 
The reported adjusted tax expense totalled €42.1 million in the financial year (previ-
ous year: €19.6 million) and is mainly attributable to income taxes and deferred taxes. The tax ex-
pense for the reporting year and the previous year includes various effects that temporarily led to a 
higher tax rate (explained in detail in the tax reconciliation in the notes to the consolidated financial 
statements). The balance includes other taxes totalling €0.5 million (previous year: €0.5 million). 
Overall, the adjusted consolidated profit totalled €86.5 million (previous year: €35.9 million). Con-
solidated profit before adjustments totalled €86.5 million (previous year: €35.8 million). 
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 19 
 
 
Derivation of the adjusted earnings figures 
As described in the section on the management system, the adjusted earnings figures provide a 
transparent view of the company's actual performance. The following table shows the reconciliation 
of the IFRS earnings figures to the adjusted earnings figures: 
Notes
1 Jan -
1 Jan -
31 Dec 2025 31 Dec 2024
€k
€k
 
 
 
 
Revenue
III.1.
704,326
498,353
Operating performance
704,326
498,353
Income from equity investments
III.2.
21,032
6,029
Other operating income
III.3.
8,563
5,859
Total performance
733,921
510,241
Cost of raw materials and supplies
-87,712
-61,748
Cost of purchased services
-235,315
-175,725
Cost of materials
III.4.
-323,027
-237,473
Wages and salaries
-139,976
-114,551
Social security and pension costs
-43,828
-34,744
Staff costs
III.5.
-183,804
-149,295
Other operating expenses
III.6.
-63,817
-42,945
Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation 
and amortisation (EBITDA) 
 
163,273
80,529
Depreciation and amortisation
-26,556
-21,248
Adjusted for the following effects:
Depreciation and amortisation of assets acquired 
in business combinations 
 
85
163
Adjusted earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT)
136,802
59,444
Financial income
III.7.
2,559
1,262
Financial expenses
III.8.
-1,610
-1,426
Earnings attributable to non-controlling interests
-9,729
-3,818
Net finance costs
-8,781
-3,981
Adjusted for the following effects:
Non-controlling interests
-1
-12
Adjusted earnings before taxes (EBT)
128,021
55,451
Income tax expense
III.9.
-41,504
-19,101
Other taxes
III.9.
-510
-496
Adjusted for the following effects:
Deferred taxes on adjusted business transactions
-74
-47
Adjusted profit or loss for the period
85,932
35,807
Non-controlling interests
579
68
Adjusted consolidated net profit
86,510
35,875
Adjusted earnings per share (in €)
III.10.
4.33
1.79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 20 
 
 
Target achievement of the Group 
 
 
Forecast 
2025 
Forecast 
2025 
Forecast 
2025 
Achieved 
published
published
published
2025
Mar 25
Jul 25
Oct 25
 
 
 
 
 
Revenue (€ million)
540-570
610-650
650-680
704.3
Adjusted EBITDA margin (%)
16.0-17.0
17.5-18.5
20.0-22.0
23.2
  
The forecast for the 2025 financial year originally published in March 2025 was raised in July and 
October on the basis of more recent findings and the extraordinarily positive business performance. 
The Group's most recent forecast was once again exceeded in terms of both consolidated revenue 
and the EBITDA margin. 
Net assets 
The equity of the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group amounted to €285.3 million as at 31 December 2025 
(31 December 2024: €205.0 million). In relation to the consolidated total assets of €575.9 million 
(previous year: €437.6 million), the equity ratio as at the reporting date was 49.5% (previ-
ous year: 46.9%). The increase in equity is mainly due to the current annual result. The payment of 
the dividend of €6.0 million for the 2024 financial year, which was approved by the Annual General 
Meeting on 2 June 2025, had the opposite effect. 
The increase in property, plant and equipment to €157.8 million as at the reporting date (31 Decem-
ber 2024: €128.4 million) is largely due to investments in machinery and equipment as well as in 
the branches and locations of the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group. In addition to land and buildings 
totalling €55.1 million, property, plant and equipment also includes technical equipment and ma-
chinery (€59.0 million), operating and office equipment (€41.7 million) and assets under construc-
tion (€2.0 million). 
Financial assets increased significantly from €11.3 million in the previous year to €33.6 million in 
the reporting year. This mainly includes shares in ARGEs recognised at equity, and securities. The 
increase results in particular from an increase of €18.3 million in the carrying amounts of equity 
investments (ARGEs). This includes positive earnings effects totalling €21.2 million as well as off-
setting distributions of €2.9 million.  
Inventories amounted to €13.5 million as at the reporting date (31 December 2024: €7.0 million) 
and largely comprised raw materials and supplies (€8.8 million; 31 December 2024: €6.7 million). 
The increase in inventories is mainly due to advance payments, which increased from €0.2 million 
as at the previous year's balance sheet date to €4.7 million as at 31 December 2025. 
The change in trade receivables, contract assets and other current assets from €103.2 million as at 
31 December 2024 to €85.8 million as at the reporting date is mainly due to a reduction in trade 
receivables to €25.9 million (31 December 2024: €40.5 million). Working capital decreased com-
pared to the previous year despite significant revenue growth, which is due in particular to improved 
working capital management. 
Cash and cash equivalents amounted to €266.0 million as at the reporting date, an increase of 
€91.4 million compared to the previous year (€174.6 million). This was mainly due to the significant 
increase in profitability and the reduction in working capital at the end of the year. The Group was 
able to fulfil its payment obligations at all times. Further details on cash and cash equivalents can 
be found in the section on the financial position. 
The Group's bank, lease and other financial liabilities amounted to €17.8 million as at 31 Decem-
ber 2025 (31 December 2024: €22.4 million). The reduction in financial liabilities is mainly due to 
the scheduled repayment of bank and lease liabilities. As at the balance sheet date, the Group had 
committed but unutilised credit lines amounting to €47.0 million. Please refer to the disclosures in 
the notes to the consolidated financial statements (section VII. Financial risk management) for in-
formation on maturity and interest structures. 
The balance of the aforementioned liabilities and cash and cash equivalents, including the securities 
portfolio, therefore amounted to €261.9 million as at the reporting date (31 December 2024: €154.3 
million). In addition, there were off-balance sheet contingent liabilities of €398.2 million as at the 
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 21 
 
 
reporting date (31 December 2024: €281.5 million), which mainly consist of advance payment, con-
tract fulfilment and warranty guarantees. 
The profit participation capital as at the balance sheet date amounted to €10.2 million (31 Decem-
ber 2024: €10.2 million) and was provided by the charitable Irene and Friedrich Vorwerk Foundation, 
which was established by the founders of the Group. The profit participation rights receive a guaran-
teed interest rate of 2.5% above the respective 3-month Euribor. In addition, the holder of profit 
participation rights participates in the adjusted consolidated earnings of the FRIEDRICH VORWERK 
Group in the form of a variable interest rate. The total interest rate in the reporting year was 7.2% 
(previous year: 7.3%). The profit participation rights can be terminated for the first time with effect 
from 31 December 2039. 
Pension provisions decreased moderately to €1.8 million as at the reporting date (31 Decem-
ber 2024: €2.1 million). 
Deferred tax liabilities increased from €24.0 million in the previous year to €47.3 million. This is 
mainly due to higher temporary differences in non-current and current assets. 
Provisions with the liabilities character, which mainly include accruals for outstanding invoices, in-
creased slightly to €33.5 million as at the reporting date (31 December 2024: €31.4 million). 
Contract liabilities, which mainly consist of advance payments received, also increased slightly by 
€3.3 million to €84.1 million as at the reporting date. Trade payables amounted to €5.9 million as at 
the reporting date (31 December 2024: €4.4 million). 
Current liabilities to non-controlling interests include withdrawable profit shares. 
Other liabilities increased significantly and amounted to €46.2 million as at the reporting date 
(31 December 2024: €31.8 million). The increase is mainly due to higher liabilities to ARGEs 
(€21.7 million; 31 December 2024: €6.6 million), which arose from advance payments received.  
Financial position 
The change in cash and cash equivalents in the reporting year totalled €91.4 million (previ-
ous year: €118.1 million) and is broken down as follows: 
The cash flow from operating activities increased again year-on-year from €155.6 million in the pre-
vious year to €172.8 million in the reporting year. It mainly consists of the operating business of the 
subsidiaries and the resulting cash inflows. It also includes changes in assets and liabilities that are 
not attributable to investing or financing activities. The main driver for the cash flow from operating 
activities was the significantly higher profitability. The increase was supported by the further reduc-
tion in working capital as at the balance sheet date. 
Cash flow from investing activities totalled €-64.6 million (previous year: €-35.6 million) and re-
sulted primarily from payments for property, plant and equipment (€-51.6 million; previous year:     
€-35.6 million). In particular, this includes technical equipment and machinery, operating and office 
equipment and assets under construction. Furthermore, €11.5 million was invested in financial as-
sets and securities as part of active cash management in the reporting period. Payments made for 
business acquisitions, net of funds received, amounted to €1.1 million (previous year: €0.1 million). 
Cash flow from financing activities totalled €-16.8 million (previous year: €-1.9 million). This in-
cludes payments for the repayment of bank and lease liabilities (€8.1 million; previous year: 
€5.5 million), the payment of dividends to shareholders of Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE (€6.0 million; 
previous year: €2.4 million), interest payments (€1.6 million; previous year: €1.4 million) and pay-
ments for dividends to non-controlling interests (€1.1 million; previous year: €0.6 million). The cash 
flow from financing activities in the previous year also included a payment of €8.0 million from the 
raising of bank liabilities.  
Overall statement 
The Management Board views the development of the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group in the 2025 fi-
nancial year as exceptionally positive. In the reporting year, record revenue totalling €704.3 million 
was once again generated, which corresponds to growth of 41%. The basis for this growth was the 
realisation of many energy infrastructure projects, which are essential for ensuring security of supply 
and the success of the energy transition. It is also worth noting the further significant improvement 
in the Group’s profitability. Thanks to excellent project execution and a high-quality order backlog in 
conjunction with improved capacity utilisation and project management, the EBITDA margin in-
creased continuously over the course of the financial year. In addition, cash flow from operating 
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 22 
 
 
activities was further increased thanks to improved working capital management, resulting in an ex-
cellent liquidity position as at the balance sheet date. The continued recruitment success in the re-
porting year is also particularly pleasing. The number of employees increased by 15.1% compared 
to the previous year to 2,243 at the end of the financial year. 
 
Principles and objectives of financial management 
The basic principles of the Group's financial policy are determined by the Management Board of 
Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE. The primary objectives of our financial management are to secure li-
quidity and limit financial risks. Furthermore, our aim is to realise a return on the Group's free liquid-
ity. In this respect, a very small proportion of these funds are invested in a highly diversified manner 
in securities and fixed-term deposits, unless and until they are required to finance growth, e.g. 
through further acquisitions. 
The FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group does not actively hedge against other currencies at Group level, 
as transactions are usually carried out in euros. Managing the credit risks of our contractual partners 
is the responsibility of the individual subsidiaries. However, monitoring at Group level ensures timely 
intervention if necessary. 
The main source of corporate financing is our operating activities and the cash inflows they generate. 
In addition, the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group has access to liquidity from various credit lines if re-
quired. 
Controlling system 
The FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group's consistent focus on increasing the value of the company is also 
reflected in our internal management system. All relevant developments in the FRIEDRICH VOR-
WERK Group are discussed at regular Management Board meetings. The development of the Group's 
most important performance indicators revenue and EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depre-
ciation and amortisation) are analysed. Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE defines Group revenue and 
Group EBITDA as the most important financial performance indicators relevant to forecasting. In 
addition to these, there are less significant financial performance indicators for the Group, in partic-
ular order intake, total project volume acquired, EBIT (earnings before interest and taxes), EBT 
(earnings before taxes) and project contribution margins. The balance of cash and cash equivalents 
including securities and financial liabilities (net cash or net debt) is used as a less significant indica-
tor to assess the financial position. Other less significant financial performance indicators are trade 
working capital, which comprises inventories, trade receivables, contract assets, advance payments 
received and trade payables. In addition to the aforementioned key financial figures from day-to-day 
operations, the focus is also on less significant non-financial indicators such as employee, environ-
mental and social issues on an ad hoc basis. There were no relevant events in the 2025 financial 
year. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 23 
 
 
Report on risks and opportunities 
Risk management 
Risk management is one of the most important foundations of the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group's 
business activities and ensures the company's long-term competitiveness. FRIEDRICH VORWERK is 
exposed to a number of risks directly associated with its business activities when handling projects 
in the areas of energy grids and energy transformation as well as turnkey projects. The aim of risk 
management is to identify risks at an early stage and minimise them while maintaining the compa-
ny's earnings potential. Risk management at the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group aims to continuously 
develop and improve organisational processes and controls that can be used to identify risks at an 
early stage, as well as countermeasures. 
The Management Board is responsible for managing risks and opportunities in cooperation with the 
operating units. The FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group has implemented a harmonised risk management 
system to implement its risk policy. Risk management emphasises the identification of opportunities 
and risks as well as the assessment, management and control of risks. FRIEDRICH VORWERK defines 
opportunities and risks as future events with a negative or positive deviation from the actual busi-
ness activity. 
The FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group continuously identifies and monitors relevant risk categories and 
factors. The identified risks are presented and evaluated below. In order to determine which risk 
factors are most likely to pose a serious threat to the Group, they are categorised as "high", "medium" 
or "low" according to their estimated probability of occurrence in the assessment period and their 
potential impact in relation to the business objectives. 
 
The risk factors are assessed according to the following criteria: 
 
Probability of occurrence
Description
Degree of
Description
impact
 
 
 
 
 
 
under 20% 
Low 
probability 
Insignificant 
Minor negative impact on business 
activities, financial position, results 
of operations and / or cash flow
20% to 80% 
Medium 
probability 
Moderate 
Noticeable negative impact on 
business activities, financial posi-
tion, earnings position and / or cash 
flow
over 80% 
High 
probability 
Considerable 
Significant 
negative 
impact 
on 
business activities, financial posi-
tion, earnings position and / or cash 
flow
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 24 
 
 
The following risk classification is based on these criteria: 
 
Probability of occurrence
Insignificant
Moderate
Considerable
 
 
 
 
Over 80%
(high probability)
Low 
High 
High 
20% to 80%
(medium probability)
Low 
Medium 
High 
less than 20%
(low probability)
Low 
Medium 
Medium 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table provides an overview of the risk categories and the corresponding risk factors, 
which are categorised into the risk levels "Low", "Medium" or "High" according to the probability of 
occurrence and risk assessment. The classification is based on the net value of the risks, i.e. after 
taking into account the implementation of risk-minimising measures. Unless explicitly stated below, 
the following risks relate to all segments. 
 
 
Overview of the risk factors 
Probability 
of occurrence 
Effects 
Risk level 
Economic, political, social and regulatory risks
Global economic risks
Medium
Insignificant
Low
Geopolitical risks
Medium
Moderate
Medium
Risks from legal changes
Low
Insignificant
Low
Legal risks
Low
Moderate
Medium
Strategic risks
Market risks
Medium
Moderate
Medium
Risks from mergers & acquisitions
Low
Moderate
Medium
Operational business risks
Project risks
Low
Considerable
Medium
Material and external service risks
Low
Considerable
Medium
Personnel risks
Medium
Moderate
Medium
IT risks
Low
Considerable
Medium
Financial risks
Low
Insignificant
Low
Ecological and ESG risks
Environmental and climate risks
Medium
Moderate
Medium
Risks from pandemics
Low
Moderate
Medium
Sustainability risks
Low
Insignificant
Low
Corporate governance and compliance risks
Corporate law risks
Low
Moderate
Medium
 
 
 
 
 
Economic, political, social and regulatory risks 
Global economic risks 
As a globally active company, Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE is exposed to various risks resulting from 
uncertainties in the global economy. The volatility of the global financial markets and economic 
downturns can have an impact on the company's business activities and financial stability. In partic-
ular, economic crises that affect the credit, currency and liquidity markets or economic downturns 
in key sales markets pose challenges. 
In order to counter these risks, Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE continuously monitors the general eco-
nomic conditions and flexibly adapts its strategic orientation. Accordingly, and due to the business 
model, the overall risk for the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group is classified as low.  
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 25 
 
 
Geopolitical risks 
Like most internationally active companies, Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE is faced with geopolitical 
challenges arising from international conflicts, political tensions and military disputes. In particular, 
the ongoing war in Ukraine has far-reaching economic consequences that can have a direct impact 
on business activities. The political and economic sanctions against Russia and counter-sanctions 
have changed trade flows, disrupted supply chains and led to a shortage of important raw materials 
and energy sources. 
These developments are currently having an impact on energy supplies in the wake of the Iran con-
flict and could continue to do so in the future. Energy prices were stable in 2025, rose sharply after 
the balance sheet date and there is still a risk of an increase, particularly due to an intensification of 
the conflict in the Middle East, new geopolitical tensions, regulatory measures or increased demand 
for alternative energy sources. At the same time, security of supply remains a factor, as a potential 
shortage of energy sources could lead to further uncertainties in the supply chains and influence 
project production costs. 
In addition, geopolitical uncertainties are leading to a reduced willingness to invest in key industrial 
sectors and inhibiting growth potential in strategic markets. Furthermore, ongoing or escalating con-
flicts - whether in Eastern Europe, South America, the Middle East or as a result of tensions between 
China and Taiwan - harbour additional risks for the global economic order and trade relations. 
In order to meet these challenges, Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE is implementing targeted measures 
to safeguard the procurement of materials and energy. These include, for example, framework agree-
ments with fixed prices for raw materials and supplies in order to better control cost increases. In 
addition, price escalation clauses are regularly integrated into customer contracts in order to be able 
to react flexibly to volatile market conditions and pass on increased procurement costs. In view of 
the ongoing uncertainties and their economic consequences, the potential impact is categorised as 
moderate and the probability of occurrence as medium.  
Risks arising from changes in legislation 
As an internationally active company, Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE is subject to a large number of 
legal and regulatory requirements in the countries in which it does business. Changes in tax laws, 
environmental and compliance requirements, trade, customs and export regulations as well as new 
reporting obligations, particularly in the area of ESG and cyber security, can have an impact on busi-
ness processes. Protectionist measures, sanctions or country-specific certification obligations can 
also make market conditions more difficult. 
To minimise risk, Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE continuously monitors regulatory developments, works 
closely with external consultants and authorities and implements standardised compliance pro-
cesses. Due to the measures taken, Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE considers the overall risk to be low. 
Legal risks 
Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE is exposed to potential legal risks that may result from current or future 
legal proceedings, regulatory investigations or official measures. Disputes may arise from contrac-
tual relationships with customers, suppliers or business partners, but also from labour law disputes, 
warranty cases or competition law issues. The company is also subject to antitrust and tax regula-
tions, non-compliance with which could result in negative financial consequences and reputational 
damage. 
In order to counter these risks, Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE relies on comprehensive compliance 
management, carefully scrutinises contracts and legal framework conditions and works closely with 
external legal advisors. In addition, potential legal risks are identified at an early stage and mini-
mised through preventive measures. Nevertheless, the risk of legal disputes and official measures 
remains. The probability of occurrence is assessed as low and the potential impact as moderate. 
Strategic risks 
Market risks 
Market risks result from changes in macroeconomic conditions in the key markets. In the Energy 
Grids and Service & Operations divisions, these primarily include our home market of Germany and 
neighbouring European countries. Although Germany is also our home market in the Energy Trans-
formation segment, business in this area is much more international. Competition in our business 
areas could intensify in the future due to continued low demand in building and transport infrastruc-
ture construction, which could lead to a deterioration in the earnings situation.  
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 26 
 
 
To counteract these risks, Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE is pursuing a diversified market strategy. The 
Group is continuously expanding its technology portfolio in order to adapt to changing market con-
ditions and drive innovation. At the same time, targeted investments are being made in new growth 
areas in order to reduce dependence on individual markets and ensure long-term earnings security. 
Through these strategic measures, Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE is strengthening its competitiveness 
and creating a broader basis for sustainable growth. The probability of occurrence of market risks is 
assessed as medium and the potential impact as moderate overall. 
Risks from mergers & acquisitions 
Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE regularly examines opportunities to take over companies, branches, di-
visions, technologies or products in order to expand our business activities and our range of added 
value. Such transactions can offer strategic advantages, but also harbour risks that can have an im-
pact on the operational and financial stability of the Group. 
Possible risks include, in particular, incorrect assumptions or incomplete information during the due 
diligence process, which can lead to misjudgements regarding financial, legal or operational chal-
lenges. Difficulties in integrating acquired companies, products or technologies, including adapting 
them to existing business processes, can lead to unexpected costs, delays or limited profitability. 
There is also a risk that acquired companies may not realise the expected synergies or market op-
portunities or that customers, partners or employees may terminate joint business relationships. 
In order to minimise these risks, Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE carries out a comprehensive technical, 
operational, financial and legal due diligence and defines measures to minimise risks. The integra-
tion process is also monitored and additional countermeasures are taken if necessary. Despite these 
precautions, individual risks cannot be completely ruled out. The probability of occurrence is classi-
fied as low and the potential impact as moderate. 
Operational business risks 
Project risks 
Project risk is monitored across all of the Group's operating units and is divided into the sub-areas 
of calculation risk and execution risk. All projects are scrutinised for specific technical, commercial 
and legal risks in the course of tender processing through to contract conclusion. Residual risks that 
cannot be estimated for individual projects are taken into account by adding risk surcharges to the 
quotation calculation. The calculation risks arising in the course of preparing the quotation are lim-
ited by binding Group-wide calculation standards. During project execution, all major projects are 
subject to an ongoing target/actual comparison. As soon as a project moves outside the target pa-
rameters, appropriate countermeasures are initiated, monitored by the project managers or the Man-
agement Board and checked for effectiveness. The probability of occurrence is assessed as low, the 
potential impact as significant. 
Material and external service risks 
Risks can arise if the required materials or subcontractors are not available on time or on the market. 
By maintaining long-term relationships with our suppliers and subcontractors, we ensure that our 
interests are prioritised. Stock levels are continuously monitored to ensure that our projects are sup-
plied with standard materials at short notice. In order to prevent major price fluctuations on the 
procurement side, we always include appropriate price escalation clauses when processing quota-
tions. In the area of subcontractors and external services, significant financial risks can arise both 
from a lack of availability and from a higher price level. The probability of occurrence is classified as 
low, the potential impact as considerable. 
Personnel risks 
The successful management of risks in the area of human resources is a central element of corporate 
development. Personnel risks arise from employee turnover and the associated loss of expertise and 
shortage of young talent. The increasing competition for highly qualified specialists and managers 
further intensifies these challenges. 
The FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group counters the risk of staff turnover with individual performance-
related bonus schemes and a wide range of development opportunities within the Group. This moti-
vates top performers in the long term and binds them to the company. In-house training and devel-
opment ensure the next generation of specialists and managers. The FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group 
counters the increasingly fierce competition for highly qualified specialists and managers by opti-
mising its recruiting measures and cooperating with universities. As part of its recruiting measures, 
the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group is increasingly consolidating its own employer brand to strengthen 
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 27 
 
 
employee loyalty and increase its attractiveness for new and existing employees. The range of em-
ployee benefits is also constantly being revised and expanded to attract new employees. Flexible 
working time models, modern working conditions and an open corporate culture contribute to the 
attractiveness for existing and new employees. The probability of occurrence is rated as medium and 
the potential impact as moderate. 
IT risks 
The frequency of cybercrime is constantly increasing. Cyberattacks are becoming increasingly com-
plex as technologies and attack methods evolve. Such attacks can lead to business interruptions, 
embezzlement or unauthorised access to confidential information and reputational damage, among 
other things. The failure of critical IT systems due to technical faults or external attacks can also 
have a significant impact on business processes. 
To counter these risks, FRIEDRICH VORWERK relies on a comprehensive IT security concept that is 
continuously developed and adapted to current threat scenarios. This includes the use of modern 
encryption and access control systems, regular security updates and sensitisation and training 
measures for employees. In addition, emergency and recovery plans ensure that business processes 
can continue as smoothly as possible even in the event of IT disruptions. The probability of occur-
rence is assessed as low, while the potential impact is categorised as significant. 
Financial risks 
Financial risks are managed Group-wide by the parent company, Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE. In or-
der to minimise these risks as far as possible, selected derivative instruments are used in rare cases. 
In principle, only operational risks are hedged and no speculative transactions are concluded. The 
liquidity risk describes the risk that liabilities cannot be settled when they fall due. The management 
of this risk is based on a regularly updated financial plan. Cash and cash equivalents are managed 
centrally via a cash pool. The interest rate risk arises from financial liabilities with variable interest 
rates, most of which are hedged using interest rate swaps. Any hedging transactions required in the 
future are reviewed centrally by the Management Board. 
It is customary in the industry to issue various guarantees and sureties. These guarantees are usually 
issued by banks or credit insurance companies and mainly comprise contract fulfilment, advance 
payment and warranty guarantees. In the event of utilisation, the banks have recourse claims against 
the Group. No claims were made against the Group in the financial year or in the past. The availability 
and conditions of these guarantee lines are a prerequisite for further growth.  
Careful analysis of clients and, if necessary, the use of hedging instruments make bad debt risks 
manageable. In some cases, project-related advance payments and milestone payments are used in 
a targeted manner to avoid or minimise pre-financing as far as possible. The payment targets for 
receivables and liabilities are generally agreed in line with industry standards and monitored regu-
larly. Furthermore, this risk is positively influenced by the structure of the clients, which is primarily 
made up of renowned companies in the energy industry. The carrying amount of the financial assets 
represents the maximum default risk. If default risks are recognisable for financial assets, these 
risks are taken into account through value adjustments. 
These extensive measures ensure that the financial risk is largely controlled. The probability of oc-
currence is assessed as low and the potential impact as insignificant. 
Environmental and ESG risks 
Environmental and climate risks 
Environmental and climate risks have a wide variety of aspects. They relate to the energy sector and 
the associated greenhouse gas emissions on the one hand and to resource and waste management 
on the other. The FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group endeavours to reduce energy consumption, which is 
primarily due to the use of fossil fuels in the operation of our technical equipment and machinery 
and the transport of this equipment. To achieve this goal, we are increasing our efforts to implement 
sustainable and climate-neutral projects, increase the use of renewable energies, modernise our 
equipment and property portfolio and optimise our logistics planning. In terms of resource manage-
ment, FRIEDRICH VORWERK is focussing on improved material recycling and resource efficiency - 
also with regard to Group-wide water consumption. The climate risk correlates with the environmen-
tal risk. As a result of ongoing climate change and the associated global warming, recent years in 
particular have shown that storms are occurring more frequently and more severely. Energy grid pro-
jects in particular are heavily dependent on weather conditions. In the event of persistent precipita-
tion or prolonged cold spells, projects may not be able to continue. The winter months in particular 
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 28 
 
 
are characterised by bad weather. In order to avoid delays in completion, weather forecasts are 
checked at regular intervals and included in operational planning. The probability of occurrence is 
rated as medium and the potential impact as moderate. 
Risks from pandemics 
The rapid spread of the COVID-19 pandemic has led to numerous measures in Germany and other 
countries relevant to the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group. This has shown that pandemics as such can 
be considered significant. The spread of a pandemic may also result in a significant reduction or 
shutdown of the majority of economic activities in the future. This gives rise to macroeconomic risks 
that could impair economic growth and thus also the development of the energy industry. 
Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE has learned from the COVID-19 pandemic and is relying on preventive 
measures such as flexible working models and comprehensive hygiene management to minimise 
risks. In addition, the resilience of the supply chains is being increased by diversifying the sources 
of supply. The probability of occurrence is rated as low and the potential impact as moderate. 
Sustainability risks 
Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE is exposed to various sustainability risks that can have an impact on 
employee, environmental and social issues as well as on the ESG rating. Stricter legal requirements 
and increasing expectations from investors, customers and the public in the areas of environmental 
and climate protection, social responsibility and corporate governance (ESG) require continuous ad-
aptation of the corporate strategy. 
In order to counteract these risks, the Group pursues an active sustainability strategy, focusses on 
resource-conserving production factors, transparent reporting and continuous improvement of ESG 
key figures and carries out corresponding pilot projects in a targeted manner. Friedrich Vorwerk 
Group SE rates the overall risk as low.  
Corporate governance and compliance risks 
Corporate law risks 
As a listed company, Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE is subject to extensive corporate law requirements, 
particularly in the areas of compliance and corporate governance. Violations of statutory provisions 
or regulatory requirements can lead to legal consequences, financial sanctions and reputational 
damage. In addition, FRIEDRICH VORWERK is subject to constantly increasing requirements for 
transparency, reporting and internal control systems, particularly with regard to governance struc-
tures and sustainable corporate management. 
In the area of compliance, there are risks due to non-compliance with antitrust, competition and 
anti-corruption regulations as well as breaches of reporting obligations and regulatory requirements. 
Changes in corporate governance, such as new legal regulations or stricter requirements for super-
visory bodies, may also require adjustments to internal structures and entail additional administra-
tive work. 
To minimise risk, FRIEDRICH VORWERK relies on comprehensive compliance management, regular 
employee training and transparent corporate governance in accordance with recognised governance 
standards. In addition, the company works closely with external consultants and inspection bodies 
as required in order to recognise and implement legal requirements at an early stage. The probability 
of occurrence is assessed as low and the potential impact as moderate. 
Early risk detection system 
As part of the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group's early risk detection system, an assessment of the 
above-mentioned risks is made on a regular basis and their potential impact on the divisions is eval-
uated.  
 
Opportunities 
The European energy transition towards a CO2-neutral continent by 2050 entails a fundamental re-
organisation of the European energy markets, which will require enormous investments in existing 
and new energy infrastructure over the coming decades. The Russian war of aggression in Ukraine is 
proving to be an additional catalyst for an accelerated diversification of energy sources and the 
switch from natural gas to climate-neutral gases such as hydrogen. 
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 29 
 
 
Thanks to its outstanding technological expertise, excellent reputation and customer relationships 
as well as its fully integrated business model, the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group is ideally positioned 
to benefit sustainably from the significant investments in its core markets of underground natural 
gas, hydrogen and electricity (pipe-)line construction as well as the associated plant construction 
projects (e.g. GPRM systems, compressor stations, cavern storage facilities, LNG terminals and 
transformer stations). 
The basis for this is primarily the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group's ability to combine components and 
solutions developed and produced in-house as well as proprietary technologies with its strength as 
a fully integrated turnkey provider. The Group's high level of cash and cash equivalents also offers 
the opportunity to tap into new business areas and regional markets through both organic growth 
and targeted acquisitions or to further increase the depth of added value. Our business divisions 
(segments) are flexible in terms of the resources they deploy, allowing the company's management 
to adapt quickly to changing market conditions and opportunities. 
The main opportunities are described in detail below in order of importance for FRIEDRICH VOR-
WERK. 
A key component of the energy transition is the large-scale expansion of electricity generation ca-
pacity in the field of renewable energy, primarily wind and solar energy. A significant expansion of 
the transmission grids is essential for the distribution of renewable energies, particularly from the 
windy north to the consumer regions in the south of Germany, which is to be largely realised under-
ground. Depending on the scenario, the current draft of the 2037/2045 Electricity Grid Development 
Plan (2025, 1st draft) projects investment costs of €180 billion by 2037 or up to €215 billion by 
2045 for the German high-voltage onshore grid. This represents a significant increase in the esti-
mated investment costs compared to the previously published NDP 2037/2045 (2023) at €156 bil-
lion. With Bohlen & Doyen's experience in the realisation of extensive underground cable projects, 
FRIEDRICH VORWERK is ideally positioned for the resulting large-scale projects. 
As a molecular energy carrier, green hydrogen is an essential component of a successful energy tran-
sition in Europe. Hydrogen is already essential for many processes in energy-intensive industries and 
will play a decisive role in the future, particularly in the industrial and mobility sectors, which are 
difficult to decarbonise. In addition to the Europe-wide development of electrolysers for the produc-
tion of green hydrogen from renewable energies, the nationwide expansion and development of hy-
drogen-compatible pipelines and plants will therefore also be necessary. As part of the European 
hydrogen strategy, the European Commission approved a total of 33 European projects from seven 
EU member states at the beginning of 2024 as part of the IPCEI (Important Project of Common Eu-
ropean Interest) funding programme. The approved projects include 24 German projects which, with 
a total of over 2,700 km of pipeline network, more than 3.2 GW of hydrogen production capacity and 
almost 370 GWh of storage capacity, will make a significant contribution to building a green hydrogen 
infrastructure in Germany. The federal government and the respective federal states are contributing 
around €4.6 billion to the realisation of the IPCEI projects; in addition, companies are investing 
around €3.3 billion. The first funding decisions have already been issued and implementation of the 
projects has begun. FRIEDRICH VORWERK is already significantly involved in some of the subsidised 
projects, such as HyPerLink, Lingen Green Hydrogen, GetH2 and HH-WIN, and expects considerable 
further market potential as the German hydrogen infrastructure is ramped up. An important prereq-
uisite for this is the approval of the German hydrogen core network by the Federal Network Agency, 
which was granted on 22 October 2024. The 9,040 km long hydrogen core network is currently in-
tended to reach known major hydrogen consumption and production regions in Germany and thus 
connect central locations - such as large industrial centres, storage facilities, power plants and im-
port corridors. The Federal Network Agency had originally planned investments of €18.9 billion for 
the core network. However, in the first draft of the Gas and Hydrogen Network Development Plan 
2025, which was published on 3 March 2026, the network operators are now assuming a cost in-
crease of around 30%. 
Substantial growth opportunities also continue to emerge in the district heating market. District 
heating from renewable energies or unavoidable waste heat is seen as a key component in the sus-
tainable decarbonisation of the building sector. In the medium term, at least 100,000 new buildings 
nationwide are to be connected to district heating every year. This will require a massive expansion 
and modernisation of Germany's district heating networks. A study conducted by Prognos AG in July 
2024 puts the investment required by district heating suppliers at €43.5 billion by 2030 and more 
than €117 billion by 2045. Thanks to its broad portfolio of services and technologies and decades of 
experience in the planning and implementation of district heating projects, FRIEDRICH VORWERK 
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 30 
 
 
believes it is ideally positioned in this market and is currently carrying out various highly complex 
inner-city projects as a full-service provider. 
In the area of CO2 transport infrastructure, Germany is pursuing the goal of developing transport and 
storage solutions for difficult-to-avoid industrial emissions as part of its carbon management strat-
egy and the further development of the Carbon Dioxide Storage Act (KSpG) and making these avail-
able from the early 2030s as part of industrial decarbonisation. According to studies, between 
around 34 and 70 million tonnes of CO2 per year will need to be captured and transported by 2045, 
depending on the scenario. Current estimates put the investment volume for an extensive, Germany-
wide CO2 pipeline network with a length of around 4,800 kilometres required for this at between €15 
and €20 billion. To date, infrastructure development has been cluster- and project-based, in partic-
ular through industrial CO2 collection pipelines and connections to harbour locations for export. The 
first pipeline projects have already been publicised by the network operators and the corresponding 
cooperations have been competitively approved. In light of its many years of experience in gas pipe-
line construction, FRIEDRICH VORWERK is positioning itself as a central project partner for privately 
financed infrastructure expansion. 
To compensate for the nuclear phase-out that has already been completed and the decision to phase 
out coal in Germany, considerable investment in the natural gas infrastructure is necessary to ensure 
the security of supply for German industry and the population in the long term through more decen-
tralised structures and flexible gas-fired power plants. According to the network expansion proposal 
in the draft Gas Network Development Plan 2022-2032, up to €4.4 billion is to be invested in the 
long-distance gas transmission network in Germany alone by 2032. In addition, Germany reached a 
basic agreement with the EU Commission in January 2026 regarding the national power plant strat-
egy on the state-funded expansion of controllable H2-ready gas-fired power plant capacities in order 
to secure the electricity supply during dark doldrums. As part of this, tenders for a total of around 
twelve GW of new controllable capacity are to be launched from 2026, which are to go into operation 
by 2031. This will provide FRIEDRICH VORWERK with numerous potential opportunities in plant and 
pipeline construction in connection with connection and supply lines, for example. 
FRIEDRICH VORWERK is also active in the field of drinking water and wastewater infrastructure, 
including related ancillary systems in numerous projects such as the Elbchaussee in Hamburg. Ac-
cording to the German Association of Energy and Water Industries (BDEW) and the German Associ-
ation of Local Utilities (VKU), investments in the German drinking water and wastewater infrastruc-
ture currently amount to around €10-12 billion per year. If this level of investment is extrapolated 
to 2045 under conservative assumptions, this results in a cumulative financing requirement of 
around €200-250 billion. This order of magnitude includes, in particular, the renewal and refurbish-
ment of existing pipeline networks, the modernisation of systems and adjustments to changing cli-
matic and regulatory requirements. A significant proportion of these measures lie within FRIEDRICH 
VORWERK's traditional service portfolio in pipeline and infrastructure construction. 
Against this backdrop, FRIEDRICH VORWERK is confident that the aforementioned core markets, 
particularly in the areas of hydrogen, electricity, district heating and CO2 as well as fresh and waste 
water, will offer significant future growth opportunities from operating activities and possible inor-
ganic growth, which can be utilised in a targeted manner on the basis of the prevailing financial 
strength. 
 
Overall assessment 
The Group is constantly working to further improve the overall risk situation of the organisation, in-
cluding by focussing increasingly on collaborative and lower-risk forms of contract. FRIEDRICH VOR-
WERK will continue to work intensively to optimise the risk situation on an ongoing basis. To this end, 
the risk management approach will be continuously reviewed and adjusted as necessary in order to 
avoid potential volatility in the Group's key performance indicators.  
The consistent focus on the European energy transition and the implementation of our Group-wide 
strategy helps FRIEDRICH VORWERK to realise the opportunities that arise. In doing so, we endeav-
our to counteract potential risks and thus avoid or reduce the negative effects on our business ac-
tivities. 
From the current perspective, the risks described in the previous report, even in their entirety and 
taking into account any interactions, do not represent risks that jeopardise the continued existence 
of the Group due to their probability of occurrence and their potential impact on FRIEDRICH VOR-
WERK. 
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 31 
 
 
Principles of the risk management system 
The FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group takes account of the aforementioned risks by means of a risk man-
agement system implemented by the Management Board. The risk management system creates the 
framework for defining and shaping the risk culture and for identifying, assessing, managing and 
communicating risks. The risk management system is continuously improved and optimised. 
Measures are taken at an early stage to avert disadvantages for the subsidiaries and the Group. 
These include, among other things: 
- integrated project controlling, which accompanies the operational projects in the individual 
group companies 
- regular management meetings with the managing directors and other managers of the sub-
sidiaries 
- a regular external or internal audit that examines predefined focal points 
- regular compliance and safety training for all employees according to their activities 
- structured merger & acquisition tools 
- centralised group monitoring of significant contractual risks or legal disputes by the Manage-
ment Board and involvement of qualified law firms if required 
 
Internal control system for financial and non-financial reporting 
The Management Board of Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE is responsible for the preparation of the an-
nual financial statements and the management report of Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE in accordance 
with the provisions of the German Commercial Code (HGB) and the German Stock Corporation Act 
(AktG). Furthermore, the consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with Inter-
national Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and the group management report is prepared in ac-
cordance with German Accounting Standard (GAS) No. 20.  
In order to ensure the accuracy and completeness of the information in the reporting, including the 
correctness of the accounting, the Management Board has established an appropriate internal con-
trol system that also covers non-financial aspects.  
The internal control system is designed to ensure that all business processes and transactions are 
recorded in the accounts promptly, uniformly and correctly. It ensures compliance with legal stand-
ards and accounting regulations. Changes to laws, accounting standards and other pronouncements 
are continuously analysed with regard to their relevance for and impact on the separate and consol-
idated financial statements and on non-financial reporting. The internal control system is also based 
on a series of process-integrated monitoring measures. These process-integrated monitoring 
measures include organisational safeguards, ongoing automatic measures (segregation of duties, 
access restrictions, organisational instructions such as powers of representation) and controls inte-
grated into day-to-day workflows. The effectiveness of the internal control system is also ensured 
by process-independent monitoring measures. Accounting for the majority of fully consolidated 
companies and consolidation measures are centralised. System-based controls are monitored by 
employees and supplemented by manual reviews. Consolidation measures are carried out using a 
standardised consolidation system. The employees involved in the accounting process receive reg-
ular training. External specialists are engaged on a case-by-case basis to manage individual account-
ing risks, such as actuarial valuations. The Supervisory Board of Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE is re-
sponsible for regularly monitoring the effectiveness of the control and monitoring systems. It re-
ceives regular reports from the Management Board.  
 
Adequacy of the internal control system and risk management system 
The internal control system, with regard to financial and non-financial reporting, and the risk man-
agement system are reviewed on an ongoing basis and adjusted accordingly. The results of external 
audits and internal sources are taken into account when assessing the appropriateness of the sys-
tem. If any issues are identified, the Group takes corrective action. In the reporting year, no material 
issues were identified that would indicate that the internal control system and the risk management 
system are inadequate. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 32 
 
 
Corporate governance declaration (unaudited) 
In accordance with Principle 23 of the German Corporate Governance Code and sections 289f and 
315d of the German Commercial Code (HGB), the Supervisory Board and Management Board report 
on corporate management and corporate governance: 
Declaration pursuant to section 161 AktG 
On 24 March 2026, the Management Board and Supervisory Board issued the most recent declara-
tion of conformity in accordance with section 161 AktG. It reads as follows: 
The Management Board and Supervisory Board of Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE issued the last decla-
ration of conformity in accordance with section 161 AktG in March 2025. The following declaration 
refers to the recommendations of the Code in its version dated 28 April 2022 ("the Code"), which 
was published in the Federal Gazette on 27 June 2022. 
 
The Management Board and Supervisory Board of Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE declare that the rec-
ommendations of the Code have been complied with since the last Declaration of Conformity was 
issued, with the following exceptions, and will be complied with in future:  
 
- 
Recommendation D.4 of the GCGC - Nomination Committee: Section D.4 of the GCGC rec-
ommends the formation of a nomination committee composed exclusively of shareholder 
representatives.  
 
Due to the current size and structure of the Supervisory Board, the company's Supervisory 
Board does not consider it necessary to form a nomination committee to propose suitable 
candidates. The decision on the Supervisory Board's election proposals to the Annual Gen-
eral Meeting should be the responsibility of the entire Supervisory Board. 
 
- 
Recommendations G.1 to G.11 of the Code - Management Board remuneration: Sections 
G.1 and G.2 of the Code stipulate that the remuneration system to be developed by the 
Supervisory Board for the members of the Management Board should contain certain addi-
tional elements, in particular a specific target total remuneration for each member of the 
Management Board, in addition to the binding statutory requirements.  
Sections G.3 to G.5 of the Code contain requirements that the Supervisory Board must take 
into account when developing such a remuneration system, in particular with regard to a 
suitable peer group of other companies, the relationship between the remuneration of the 
Management Board and the remuneration of senior management and the workforce as a 
whole, as well as the independence of the external remuneration experts consulted.  
 
Sections G.6 to G.11 contain recommendations on variable remuneration, in particular on 
the relationship between long-term and short-term targets, the performance criteria, sub-
sequent changes to target values or comparison parameters, the determination of target 
achievement, the requirement to invest the variable remuneration primarily in shares of the 
company and the possibility of withholding or reclaiming the variable remuneration if this 
is justified.  
 
At present, the Supervisory Board is of the opinion that the remuneration system for the 
Management Board is appropriate for the current size and structure of the company. The 
members of the Management Board are sufficiently incentivised to act in the interests of 
the company and its shareholders. The Chairman of the Management Board, Torben Klein-
feldt, does not receive any variable remuneration as a significant shareholder. Neither mem-
ber of the Management Board currently receives any long-term variable remuneration; how-
ever, Management Board member Tim Hameister (CFO) subscribed for shares in Friedrich 
Vorwerk Group SE as part of the IPO. For detailed information on the current remuneration 
system, please refer to the company's remuneration report, which has been made available 
on the website www.friedrich-vorwerk-group.de/en. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 33 
 
 
The above declaration of compliance is published on our website at www.friedrich-vorwerk-
group.de/en/investor-relations/corporate-governance and is available for download. 
 
Remuneration report 
The remuneration report prepared in accordance with section 162 AktG and the audit opinion are 
published on our website at www.friedrich-vorwerk-group.de/en/investor-relations/corporate-gov-
ernance. 
 
Disclosures on corporate governance practices 
Compliance 
At FRIEDRICH VORWERK, compliance with legal provisions and internal company guidelines (here-
inafter also referred to as "compliance") relevant to the company's activities is seen as an essential 
part of corporate governance. The management task in all Group units therefore also includes the 
duty to ensure compliance with the relevant legal provisions in the respective area of activity and 
responsibility and to work towards their observance.  
Workflows and processes must be organised in accordance with these regulations. At the heart of 
FRIEDRICH VORWERK's Compliance Management System (CMS) is a Code of Conduct, which sets 
out principles and recommendations for action on particularly compliance-relevant topics such as 
behaviour in competition, avoiding corruption, discrimination and conflicts of interest, as well as 
handling sensitive company information and data subject to data protection. The Code of Conduct is 
supplemented by additional Group guidelines, including those on the prevention of corruption and 
behaviour in competition. Another element of the CMS is the systematic, ongoing analysis of 
compliance risks and the linking of these with corresponding measures, such as employee training 
and process adjustments to minimise the relevant risks. The overall coordination of the CMS is the 
responsibility of the Group Compliance Officer, who reports directly to the Management Board. There 
are also contact persons or compliance officers in the individual subsidiaries. The compliance 
officers are also primarily responsible for advising employees on all compliance-relevant issues and 
providing further clarification in the event of indications of violations. Employees and third parties 
also have the opportunity to report misconduct within the company. During the reporting period, the 
Audit Committee monitored the effectiveness of the CMS through regular reports from the 
Management Board and the Group Compliance Officer. The system will continue to be developed on 
an ongoing basis in the future. 
Risk management 
The FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group's risk management is described in detail in the risk and opportunity 
report as part of the combined management and group management report. 
Transparency 
For FRIEDRICH VORWERK, providing shareholders and interested members of the public with timely 
information on important issues is an integral part of good corporate governance. Information on the 
economic situation of the company and significant business events is provided in particular in the 
financial reports (annual report, half-yearly financial report and quarterly statements), analyst and 
press conferences, press releases and ad hoc announcements as well as at the Annual General Meet-
ings. The website www.friedrich-vorwerk-group.de/en, which makes all relevant information availa-
ble in German and English, is a constantly usable and up-to-date communication medium. In addi-
tion to information on the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group and the shares of Friedrich Vorwerk Group 
SE, the financial calendar can also be found there, which provides an overview of important dates. 
  
Composition and Working Procedures of the Management Board and the Supervisory 
Board 
Two-tier management and control system: Management Board and Supervisory Board 
The fundamental feature of the corporate governance structure of Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE is a 
two-tier system with a clear separation of management by the Management Board and control by 
the Supervisory Board. The Management Board is responsible for the management of the company 
and represents the company externally. The Supervisory Board is responsible for appointing, dis-
missing and monitoring the members of the Management Board. Under German law, the Supervisory 
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 34 
 
 
Board may not make any operational management decisions. However, both bodies work closely 
together in the interests of the company and share the common goal of maintaining long-term, sus-
tainable growth prospects for its shareholders. As the company's governing body, the Annual Gen-
eral Meeting represents the interests of the shareholders. The Management Board reports to the 
Supervisory Board in writing and verbally on an ongoing basis and provides detailed information on 
the status of the company. The Management Board also submits the budget for the coming financial 
year and medium-term planning to the Supervisory Board. The Management Board is also required 
to inform the Supervisory Board in good time of all transactions that could have a significant impact 
on the company's profitability or liquidity. This enables the Supervisory Board to express its view on 
such a transaction before it is realised. 
Management Board 
The Management Board of Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE is responsible for managing the company and 
represents Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE in transactions with third parties. The Management Board 
defines the company’s strategic direction, coordinates this with the Supervisory Board and ensures 
its implementation. The Management Board aligns its actions and decisions with the interests of the 
company. It is committed to the goal of sustainably increasing the value of the company, taking into 
account the interests of shareholders, employees and other stakeholders. Secondary activities, in 
particular Supervisory Board mandates in companies outside the Group, require the approval of the 
Supervisory Board. Significant transactions between Group companies on the one hand and the 
members of the Management Board and persons or companies related to them on the other also 
require the approval of the Supervisory Board and must comply with standard market conditions. 
Conflicts of interest involving members of the Management Board must be disclosed to the Chairman 
of the Supervisory Board without delay and the other members of the Management Board must be 
informed accordingly. No such conflicts of interest arose in the reporting year. 
The Management Board fulfils its duties as a collegial body. The members of the Management Board 
work together as colleagues and keep one another informed of significant developments in their ar-
eas of responsibility. Irrespective of their overall responsibility for the management of the company, 
the individual members of the Management Board are responsible for managing the departments 
assigned to them in accordance with the schedule of responsibilities. Fundamental questions of or-
ganisation, business policy and corporate planning as well as measures of major importance are 
discussed and decided on by the full Management Board. The Chairman of the Management Board 
coordinates the work of the Management Board. 
The members of the Management Board are covered by directors' and officers' liability insurance 
(D&O insurance), which fulfils the requirements of section 93 (2) sentence 3 AktG. 
When appointing members for the Management Board of Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE and in the two 
management levels below the Management Board, it is important for the Supervisory Board, in ac-
cordance with the requirements of the German Stock Corporation Act, that the candidate has the 
skills, knowledge and experience required for the work of the Management Board. FRIEDRICH VOR-
WERK particularly encourages women and endeavours to ensure that women take on more respon-
sibility within the Group. Nevertheless, the Supervisory Board must recognise that the proportion of 
women overall, but also in management positions in the industry in which FRIEDRICH VORWERK 
operates, is significantly lower than in other industries and sectors. It is therefore comparatively 
more challenging to fill vacancies with women in the various divisions and company hierarchies. In 
future, too, female candidates should only be given preference if they have the same qualifications. 
In view of the size of the Management Board and the long-term contracts, the Supervisory Board has 
set a target quota for the proportion of women on the Management Board of 20%, which is to be 
achieved in the medium term.  
Diversity on the Management Board is also reflected in the individual educational and professional 
backgrounds as well as the different levels of experience of its members (e.g. industry experience). 
Different educational, professional and experience backgrounds are therefore expressly desired. 
However, based on their personal and professional skills and experience, each member of the Man-
agement Board must be able to fulfil the duties of a member of the Management Board of an inter-
nationally active, listed company and uphold the reputation of the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group in 
the public eye. The members of the Management Board should also have an in-depth understanding 
of FRIEDRICH VORWERK's business and, as a rule, several years of management experience. 
The age limit for members of the Management Board is 66 years. There is no minimum age. However, 
members of the Management Board should have several years of management experience at the 
time of their appointment. Within this framework - for reasons of diversity and in the interests of 
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 35 
 
 
long-term succession planning - a heterogeneous age structure is aimed for within the Management 
Board, whereby age is not considered to be of central importance compared to the other criteria.  
The current composition of the Management Board fulfils the above objectives, with the exception 
of the medium-term target for the proportion of women. The Management Board currently consists 
of two people with different professional backgrounds, experience and expertise. No member of the 
Management Board has exceeded the age limit.  
Long-term succession planning for the Management Board 
The Supervisory Board works together with the Management Board to ensure long-term succession 
planning for the Management Board. On the part of the Supervisory Board, this task is performed by 
the entire Board. Based on the objectives described above for the composition and competences of 
the members, requirement profiles are drawn up for the individual Management Board positions. The 
requirement profiles and the allocation of responsibilities are regularly reviewed by the Supervisory 
Board with regard to the current environment, business development and corporate strategy. 
A key component of long-term succession planning is also the identification and further development 
of internal candidates for future management tasks. The Management Board is responsible for iden-
tifying potential candidates at an early stage, who are then to be systematically developed by taking 
on tasks with increasing responsibility and providing needs-based further training so that, ideally, 
internal candidates can always be included in the shortlist when new appointments are made. 
Supervisory Board 
The Supervisory Board determines the composition of the Management Board, monitors the Man-
agement Board's management of the company, advises it on the management of the company and is 
involved in fundamental and important decisions. In accordance with the rules of procedure for the 
Management Board, measures and transactions of fundamental importance require the approval of 
the Supervisory Board. Other important tasks are the examination and adoption of the annual finan-
cial statements and the approval of the consolidated financial statements. 
The tasks and internal organisation of the Supervisory Board and its committees are set out in the 
law, the Articles of Association and the rules of procedure of the Supervisory Board, which are avail-
able on the website www.friedrich-vorwerk-group.de/en/investor-relations/corporate-governance. 
The Chairman of the Supervisory Board coordinates the work of the Supervisory Board and repre-
sents the interests of the Supervisory Board externally.  
The members of the Supervisory Board are obliged to act in the interests of the company. No member 
of the Supervisory Board may pursue personal interests in their decisions or take advantage of busi-
ness opportunities to which the company is entitled. Conflicts of interest must be disclosed to the 
Chairman of the Supervisory Board without delay. The Supervisory Board provides information on 
any conflicts of interest that arise and how they are dealt with in its report to the Annual General 
Meeting. Consultancy and other service or work contracts between a member of the Supervisory 
Board and the company require the approval of the Supervisory Board. There were no such contracts 
in the 2025 financial year. 
The members of the Supervisory Board are covered by directors' and officers' liability insurance 
(D&O insurance), which does not provide for a deductible.  
The work of the Supervisory Board takes place both in plenary sessions and in committees. The in-
dividual committees and their responsibilities are set out in the Supervisory Board's rules of proce-
dure. Due to the size and composition of the Supervisory Board, there is currently only one Audit 
Committee. The Chairman of the Audit Committee is Dr Julian Deutz. 
According to the company's Articles of Association, the Supervisory Board is made up of three mem-
bers to be elected by the Annual General Meeting. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 36 
 
 
Objectives for the competence profile of the Supervisory Board 
Requirements for the individual members of the Supervisory Board 
Each member of the Supervisory Board should be characterised by integrity and the ability to make 
independent decisions in order to fulfil the monitoring and auditing tasks. In order to advise and 
monitor the Management Board, each Supervisory Board member should also have appropriate ex-
perience from management functions or have acquired the necessary skills in some other way. Each 
member of the Supervisory Board should be particularly discreet, professional, open to discussion, 
solution-orientated and able to cooperate, which must be taken into account in particular when pro-
posing candidates to the Annual General Meeting. In addition, each member of the Supervisory 
Board must safeguard the public image of the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group. 
Each Supervisory Board member is responsible for ensuring that they have sufficient time to properly 
fulfil their mandate. It should be noted that at least four ordinary Supervisory Board meetings are 
held each year, each of which requires appropriate preparation, sufficient time must be set aside for 
the review of the annual and consolidated financial statements and, in the case of membership of 
one or more Supervisory Board committees, additional time is required. In addition, extraordinary 
meetings of the Supervisory Board or a committee may be necessary to deal with special issues and 
resolutions may need to be passed by way of circulation. Each member of the Supervisory Board 
should be prepared to be available at short notice with the necessary flexibility if urgent matters 
arise. Supervisory Board members should comply with the limit on Supervisory Board mandates rec-
ommended by the Code. 
With regard to the age limit, the Supervisory Board has determined that Supervisory Board members 
should retire from the Supervisory Board at the Annual General Meeting following their 75th birth-
day. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 37 
 
 
Requirements for the composition of the Board 
Overall, the Supervisory Board should have the competences that are considered essential in view 
of the activities of the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group. The following qualification matrix is based on 
the requirements for Supervisory Board members: 
1) Within the meaning of the German Corporate Governance Code 
2) In accordance with section 100 (5) AktG and recommendation D.3 of the Code 
 
In addition, in accordance with the requirements of section 100 (5) AktG, at least one member of the 
Supervisory Board must have expertise in the field of accounting and at least one other member of 
the Supervisory Board must have expertise in the field of auditing; the members as a whole must be 
familiar with the sector in which the company operates. 
Dr Julian Deutz, as Chairman of the Audit Committee, has extensive experience in all matters relating 
to accounting, auditing and internal control and risk management systems as the former Chief Fi-
nancial Officer of Axel Springer SE. Other members of the Audit Committee are Heike von der Hey-
den, who, as CEO of Qair Deutschland GmbH, has extensive accounting expertise as well as 
knowledge of sustainability reporting in particular, and Dr Christof Nesemeier, who also has many 
years of experience in auditing as the founder and long-standing CEO of MBB SE. 
The Supervisory Board strives for a composition that ensures qualified supervision and advice for 
the Management Board at all times. The Board is of the opinion that diversity aspects play an im-
portant role for the effective work of the Board - and thus for the sustainable development of the 
company - in addition to professional and personal requirements. In this respect, the following ob-
jectives serve as a guideline for long-term succession planning and the selection of suitable candi-
dates. 
Qualification matrix 
Dr Christof
Nesemeier 
Dr Julian
Deutz 
Heike von
der Heyden 
  
  
  
  
Affiliation 
  
  
  
   Member since 
28 Jul 2020 
10 Feb 2021 
10 Feb 2021 
   Elected until 
2026 
2026 
2026 
Personal suitability 
   Independence1) 

 
   Other mandates 
2 
0 
0 
   Committees 
Audit Committee 
Audit Committee 
Audit Committee 
Diversity 
 
 
 
   Year of birth 
1965 
1968 
1966 
   Gender 
Male 
Male 
Female 
   Nationality 
German 
German 
German 
   International experience 
 
 
 
Professional competence 
 
 
 
   Management experience 
 
 
 
   Mergers & Acquisitions 
 
 
 
   Sustainability & ESG 
 
 
 
   Purchasing & Production 
 
 
 
   Financial expert2) 
 
 
 
   Risk management  
 
 
 
   Corporate Governance & Compliance 
 
 
 
   Human Resources 
 
 
 
   Business field / sector familiarity 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 38 
 
 
Supervisory Board members of Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE who are members of the Management 
Board of a listed company should not, as a rule, hold more than two Supervisory Board mandates in 
non-Group listed companies or comparable functions and should not chair the Supervisory Board of 
a non-Group listed company. Supervisory Board members of FRIEDRICH VORWERK who are not 
members of the Management Board of a listed company should not, as a rule, hold more than five 
such external mandates in total, whereby a Supervisory Board chairmanship counts twice. Compa-
rable functions are, in particular, mandates in supervisory bodies of foreign listed companies or man-
dates in supervisory bodies of companies that are subject to statutory co-determination. In contrast, 
the (time) commitment associated with membership of supervisory or advisory boards of smaller 
companies is generally significantly lower, which is why such mandates are not generally considered 
comparable functions. 
Taking into account the company-specific situation and ownership structure of FRIEDRICH VOR-
WERK, the Supervisory Board considers it appropriate that more than half of the Supervisory Board 
members are independent of the company and the Management Board. The Supervisory Board of 
Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE should be composed of at least 30% women and 30% men. Diversity on 
the Supervisory Board is also reflected, among other things, in the individual professional back-
grounds and areas of activity as well as the different levels of experience of its members. In the 
interests of diversity, the Supervisory Board strives for a composition in which the members com-
plement each other in terms of their background, experience and expertise. 
The current composition of the Supervisory Board fulfils all of the above objectives: the Supervisory 
Board is made up of individuals with different professional backgrounds, experience and expertise. 
The proportion of women of 30% is met. No member exceeded the age limit at the time of their 
election. The term limits are observed by all members of the Supervisory Board. The majority of the 
members of the Supervisory Board are independent of the company and the Management Board. The 
Supervisory Board last carried out a self-assessment on 15 September 2025. 
 
Disclosures pursuant to section 289a and section 315a HGB 
Composition of the issued capital 
The company's issued capital amounted to €20,000,000.00 as at 31 December 2025 and was di-
vided into 20,000,000 no-par-value shares. The shares are bearer shares. Each share grants one 
vote at the Annual General Meeting. 
Restrictions relating to voting rights or the transfer of shares 
There are no restrictions on voting rights or the transfer of shares. 
Direct or indirect equity interests that exceed 10% of the voting rights 
Direct or indirect equity interests that exceed 10% of the voting rights are shown in the following 
table 
 
31 Dec 2025
31 Dec 2024
 
Number of 
shares
%
Number of 
shares
%
MBB SE
8,852,490
44.26%
10,098,230
50.49%
ALX Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH
3,600,000
18.00%
3,730,370
18.65%
Other shareholders
7,547,510
37.74%
6,171,400
30.86%
Total
20,000,000
100%
20,000,000
100%
 
MBB SE and ALX Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH concluded a voting rights agreement on 6 Febru-
ary 2021 in which both parties agreed to exercise their voting rights uniformly. Resolutions on the 
manner in which voting rights are exercised in accordance with the voting rights agreement are 
passed by simple majority on the basis of the voting rights held by the parties to the voting rights 
agreement in Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE. The voting agreement can be terminated by either party 
at any time and ends automatically if one party holds less than 10% of the shares in the company or 
if both parties together hold less than 30% of the shares in the company. 
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 39 
 
 
Holders of shares with special rights 
Shares with special rights have not been issued. 
Type of voting right control in the case of employee shareholdings 
There are no voting right controls of any kind. 
Statutory provisions and provisions of the Articles of Association on the appointment and dismissal of 
members of the Management Board and on amendments to the Articles of Association 
The Management Board is appointed and dismissed in accordance with the statutory provisions of 
the German Stock Corporation Act (sections 84 et seq. AktG). 
In accordance with section 179 (1) AktG, any amendment to the Articles of Association requires a 
resolution by the Annual General Meeting. According to section 24 of the Articles of Association, 
amendments to the Articles of Association require a simple majority of the votes cast at the Annual 
General Meeting, whereby abstentions do not count as votes cast. 
Section 11 (2) of the Articles of Association also stipulates: "The Supervisory Board is authorised to 
make amendments to the Articles of Association that only affect the wording. In particular, the Su-
pervisory Board is authorised to amend the wording of the Articles of Association following the full 
or partial implementation of the increase in share capital from authorised or conditional capital or 
following the expiry of the respective authorisation periods in accordance with the scope of the cap-
ital increase from authorised or conditional capital." 
Authorisations of the Management Board, in particular with regard to the possibility of issuing or buy-
ing back shares 
The authorisations granted to the Management Board by the Annual General Meeting with regard to 
increasing the share capital and issuing shares are set out in Article 4 of the Articles of Association. 
For further information, please refer to the detailed disclosures on equity in the notes to the consol-
idated financial statements. 
Significant agreements subject to the condition of a change of control following a takeover bid 
There are no such agreements. 
Compensation agreements with members of the Management Board or employees in the event of a 
takeover bid 
There are no such compensation agreements. 
Please refer to the notes to the consolidated financial statements and section II.10.1 Equity in the 
notes to the consolidated financial statements for the disclosures required under section 160 (1) no. 
2 AktG. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 40 
 
 
Disclosures pursuant to section 312 (3) AktG 
With regard to the legal transactions and measures listed in the report on relationships with affiliated 
companies, the company received appropriate consideration for each legal transaction according to 
the circumstances known to us at the time the legal transactions were carried out or the measures 
were taken or omitted and was not disadvantaged by the fact that these measures were taken or 
omitted. 
Forecast 
The continued success in personnel recruitment combined with a high-quality order backlog of 
€1,021.4 million as at 31 December 2025 provides an excellent starting point for continuing the 
growth trajectory. On this basis, the Management Board expects revenue in the range of €730 million 
to €780 million and EBITDA in the range of €160 million to €180 million for 2026 financial year.  
Events after the end of the reporting period 
For information on events after the end of the reporting period, please refer to the corresponding 
disclosures in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 41 
 
 
Non-financial statement (unaudited) 
The principle of sustainability is a central component of the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group's strategy 
and corporate policy. 
Accordingly, various aspects of sustainability are integrated into the corporate strategy, Group-wide 
controlling and the regular meetings of the Management Board. FRIEDRICH VORWERK's philosophy 
is characterised by commercially oriented action combined with responsibility for the environment, 
employees and society. In our daily endeavours to achieve top performance, we harmonise sustain-
ability-related objectives with economic aspects. 
In accordance with section 289d HGB, we have examined which national, European or international 
frameworks could be used to prepare the non-financial statement. However, we are currently re-
fraining from the comprehensive application of a framework, as this would not be in any meaningful 
cost-benefit ratio for the corporate structure of the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group and we do not con-
sider the existing frameworks to be suitable for us. The reporting period for the non-financial state-
ment is the 2025 financial year. The quantitative disclosures include all fully consolidated subsidi-
aries of the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group. 
Business model 
FRIEDRICH VORWERK is one of the leading providers of turnkey solutions for the transformation and 
transport of energy. We plan, realise, install and operate critical energy infrastructure along the en-
tire value chain and ensure that energy sources such as raw natural gas, wind and solar energy can 
be converted into usable natural gas, electricity and clean hydrogen and then transported to the end 
consumer. 
We design and build power lines that connect wind energy sources in northern Germany with end 
consumers in southern Germany and gas pipelines that make the European energy infrastructure fit 
for the future. With our hydrogen solutions, we are enabling the transition to the clean, molecular 
energy carriers of the future. We cover the entire spectrum from large-scale turnkey projects to cus-
tomised special solutions. We are constantly striving for innovative product solutions that enable our 
clients to transport energy with lower carbon emissions. Our product portfolio also includes services 
such as the maintenance, operation and servicing of our customers' energy infrastructure. Overall, 
FRIEDRICH VORWERK thus plays a decisive role in the energy transition and in securing the energy 
supply. 
Further information on the business model and the individual segments can be found in the "Seg-
ments" section of the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group's combined management and group manage-
ment report 2025. 
Stakeholders  
Investors: Our shareholders expect the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group to act in a long-term, sustain-
able and responsible manner. In addition to a clear strategic focus and reliable corporate govern-
ance, they attach particular importance to transparency, traceability and consistent reporting. Sus-
tainable value development, which takes equal account of ecological, social and economic aspects, 
forms the basis for trust and a stable partnership with our investors. 
Customers: Our customers are looking for reliable and efficient partners who support them with high-
quality, innovative and sustainable solutions. They expect not only technical expertise and adher-
ence to deadlines, but also responsible behaviour along the entire value chain. The consideration of 
ecological requirements, compliance with social standards and the responsible use of resources are 
increasingly decisive criteria for our customers when working with us. 
Employees: Our employees value the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group as an attractive, secure and for-
ward-looking employer. A healthy and safe working environment, fair working conditions and the 
opportunity to contribute and develop their own qualifications in line with their training and experi-
ence are at the centre of our focus. Sustainable working time models, living wages, targeted training 
and development programmes as well as individual development measures and other benefits are 
key components of our sustainable HR policy and contribute to the long-term loyalty and satisfaction 
of our employees. 
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 42 
 
 
Materiality analysis 
As part of the materiality analysis carried out for the first time in 2020, the topics of environmental 
concerns, social concerns and employee concerns were identified as key components of the FRIE-
DRICH VORWERK Group's sustainability strategy. These topics are discussed in more detail below. 
The topics of respecting human rights and combating corruption and bribery are also taken into ac-
count. Although these topics are of fundamental importance, they are only presented in summarised 
form due to their comparatively lower strategic relevance for the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group's sus-
tainability strategy. 
The materiality analysis is reviewed regularly, but at least once a year, and updated if necessary. In 
preparation for the implementation of the CSRD Directive, a new materiality analysis was carried out 
in 2023 in accordance with the principles of double materiality. The results confirmed the topics 
previously identified as material. 
For an overview of the non-financial key figures, please refer to the table at the end of this section. 
Environmental concerns 
In its project business, FRIEDRICH VORWERK pursues a holistic approach in which all phases along 
the project cycle are addressed and long-term utilisation beyond the scope of the project is also 
taken into account. As infrastructure projects by definition involve interventions in existing struc-
tures, our activities have a direct impact on people and the environment. In order to minimise the 
resulting impact, we place particular emphasis on forward-looking and comprehensive planning. En-
vironmental impacts include land consumption, soil excavation, interventions in the water balance, 
the consumption of energy, water and raw materials as well as the generation of noise, dust, vibra-
tions, waste water and waste. These factors vary depending on the type and scope of a project, which 
is why the Group only has a limited influence on the aforementioned factors. We counter these po-
tential environmental impacts with customised solutions as part of our environmental and energy 
management. First and foremost, we endeavour to use energy-efficient, low-emission and innovative 
technologies. As a specialist in horizontal drilling, for example, we are able to lay power lines in a 
minimally invasive manner and thus minimise the impact on the existing ecosystem. Our aim is to 
protect and preserve the natural environment in the best possible way by integrating the special 
features of each project into a customised project management. A large number of fundamental en-
vironmental protection activities required for the major projects carried out by FRIEDRICH VOR-
WERK are laid down in a legally binding landscape conservation plan. In Germany, this plan sets out 
the measures that are planned in the immediate area of the project or its immediate surroundings to 
compensate for or minimise the impact on nature and the landscape. These measures are part of the 
planning documents that are required for the approval of a project and become legally binding with 
the planning approval decision for the project. These include, among other things: 
- route optimisation: selection of the route taking into account ecological, social and economic 
aspects in order to avoid encroachment on protected areas. 
- erosion protection: implementation of measures to prevent erosion during and after construc-
tion, e.g. through greening. 
- soil and water protection: ensuring that no harmful substances enter the soil or groundwater, 
e.g. through close-meshed maintenance and the use of biodegradable lubricants. 
- fauna and flora protection: protective measures for endangered species and habitats, such as 
relocation or temporary protection zones as well as closure periods during construction work. 
- monitoring: regular monitoring of environmental conditions during and after construction in 
order to recognise and remedy possible negative effects at an early stage. 
- restoration: restoration of the original landscape forms and structures after completion of the 
construction work, including reforestation or recultivation. 
 
Not only the realisation of projects that enable a sustainable energy supply and the environmentally 
friendly implementation of these projects play a role, but also the responsible use of natural re-
sources. This applies to the use of materials as well as to the energy efficiency of the individual 
subsidiaries. The FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group makes an important contribution to environmental 
protection through the responsible use of resources and high energy efficiency and therefore has a 
keen interest in these issues for strategic reasons alone. 
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 43 
 
 
As a central element of our endeavours, FRIEDRICH VORWERK operates an integrated management 
system in which, in addition to the areas of quality in accordance with ISO 9001 and occupational 
health and safety in accordance with SCC regulations, the areas of environment in accordance with 
ISO 14001 and energy in accordance with ISO 50001 have also been certified. This system forms 
the framework for our endeavours towards continuous improvement.  
One of the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group's key objectives is to pursue a strategy of continuously in-
creasing the cost-effectiveness and efficiency of its vehicle fleet and technical systems. Fuel con-
sumption and downtimes are constantly analysed and fleet management is adjusted accordingly. Old 
vehicles, machines and equipment are constantly being replaced with new, more efficient and lower-
emission ones, thereby reducing both pollutant and noise emissions.  
In the reporting year, the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group realised a pilot project in collaboration with 
the client Gasunie to test a low-emission construction site. The aim of this project was to investigate 
the practical use of alternative drive technologies such as electric and hydrogen technology under 
real construction site conditions. The project provided valuable insights into the technical perfor-
mance, energy efficiency and operational limits of low-emission machines, which could be trans-
ferred to regular construction sites in the future.  
A Liebherr A 916E wheeled excavator, a Liebherr L 507E wheel loader, a Liebherr LPO 100 battery 
storage unit, an electro-hydraulic welding caterpillar, a hydrogen generator and a modular photovol-
taic system were used in the pilot project. The hydrogen generator and the solar system fed the 
LPO 100 battery storage unit, which was used to charge the machines. This interaction enabled self-
sufficient construction site operation and provided the opportunity to gain practical experience with 
energy consumption, charging cycles and system stability. Due to the currently still high technical 
and logistical complexity, the concept is currently not fully transferable to regular construction sites. 
Despite these limitations, the pilot project illustrates the considerable future potential of alternative 
drive technologies and shows that more climate-friendly construction work will become possible as 
technical development and infrastructure improve. 
In addition to hydrogen and electric-powered construction machinery, electric-hydraulic drive sys-
tems are already being used, for example, in all new welding crawlers. The hydraulic travel drive is 
no longer powered by a separate diesel engine, but is electrically powered by a mounted diesel-
driven power unit, which also provides the energy for the welding work. This eliminates the need for 
an additional combustion engine, meaning that instead of two diesel-powered components, one 
power unit is the only energy source required. This leads to a significant reduction in fuel consump-
tion during welding work on pipelines, as the traction drive engine is no longer permanently in oper-
ation. In pipeline construction, the use of diesel-powered large-scale equipment is still frequently 
necessary at present, as the work often takes place in areas without efficient power infrastructure 
while high, permanently available power reserves are required for heavy machinery under demand-
ing operating conditions.  
High sustainability standards are applied to the procurement of materials, equipment and services 
in the same way as for our own service provision. The topics of resource conservation, energy effi-
ciency and social responsibility are communicated to suppliers and service providers and are taken 
into account in the selection process, as are quality, adherence to deadlines and price. As part of a 
collaborative partnership in the supply chain, we expect our suppliers to fulfil the same environmen-
tal standards as we do. To this end, environmental certifications such as ISO 14001 are requested 
during the purchasing process and taken into account when selecting suppliers.  
In addition, we are committed to assuming responsibility throughout the entire supply chain in ac-
cordance with the German Supply Chain Duty of Care Act (LkSG) by systematically identifying and 
assessing potential risks to human rights and the environment and taking measures to mitigate them. 
We expect our suppliers to act in the same way in order to ensure a sustainable and responsible 
value chain. FRIEDRICH VORWEK operates a whistleblower system. This system enables employees, 
suppliers and other stakeholders to anonymously and securely report potential violations of human 
rights, environmental standards or other legal requirements. By creating such a system, we promote 
a culture of transparency and responsibility throughout our organisation and in the supply chain. We 
endeavour to seriously examine all incoming reports and take appropriate measures to ensure that 
our standards are adhered to and that potential risks are identified and addressed at an early stage. 
The FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group provides regular training for employees in all areas of the company 
to ensure that they have a high level of sustainability awareness, identify potential for improvement, 
observe the established systems for waste separation and disposal or the management of hazardous 
substances, use all resources sparingly and comply with the applicable guidelines. 
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 44 
 
 
FRIEDRICH VORWERK has been consistently driving forward the expansion of a resource-conserving 
infrastructure and a sustainable energy supply at its own sites for several years. The central project 
is the hydrogen plant realised at the Wiesmoor site, in which electricity generated by photovoltaics 
is used to electrolyse green hydrogen, which is used to supply heat to the administration buildings 
and production halls via a combined heat and power plant. Following completion of construction in 
2024 and final work in 2025, the plant will be in full operation. In addition, further photovoltaic 
capacities were created at various locations and energy-related refurbishment measures were im-
plemented in order to reduce energy consumption and continuously increase the company's own 
supply of renewable energy. A total PV capacity of over 1 MWp is currently installed, which generated 
a total of 775 MWh in 2025.  
At our headquarters in Tostedt, together with our employees, we have also always maintained a 90-
hectare forest and meadow area owned by the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group, which has been up-
graded to the highest ecological standards. 
Employee concerns 
The protection of and respect for every human being is a top priority for the FRIEDRICH VORWERK 
Group. Compliance with internationally applicable human rights and labour standards is therefore a 
matter of course for us. We condemn any form of discrimination, for example on the grounds of ethnic 
origin, religion, political views, gender, physical constitution, appearance, age or sexual orientation. 
Our employees are our Group's most important resource. This is why the recruitment of new employ-
ees and a high level of satisfaction and motivation, as well as low staff turnover among existing em-
ployees, is a central component of our sustainability strategy. We want to be an attractive employer 
for employees and junior staff and are consciously positioning ourselves as a sustainably growing 
company at the cutting edge of the energy transition with a focus on our target groups. Thanks to a 
broad range of development opportunities and our consistent recruitment strategy, we have been 
able to record steady personnel growth over the past five years. 
The FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group believes that supporting and challenging employees is a key suc-
cess factor. The qualification of our employees takes place through training and further education in 
all areas of the Group, as well as through high occupational health and safety standards and the 
targeted promotion of future managers. FRIEDRICH VORWERK currently employs 160 trainees and 
dual students (previous year: 129). Our fundamental aim is to offer permanent employment to all 
trainees and dual students who have completed their training with us. In order to remain an attrac-
tive employer, we invest in our employees, whether through direct support for employee training or 
the opportunity to work flexibly. Since 2022, we have been regularly introducing new benefits for 
employees, such as flexible working time models, tax-free fringe benefits or doubling of travel al-
lowance, in order to further increase our attractiveness as an employer. 
Gender equality is a particular concern for us. Women, men and people with a non-binary gender 
identity have the same opportunities in our company. We strive for a gender balance at all hierar-
chical levels. Due to the business model's inherent focus on technical professions, women are still 
underrepresented both in studies and in the application process, which is why the latter presents a 
challenge when filling vacancies. At 12%, the proportion of female employees remained at the pre-
vious year's level. 
The Management Board always takes diversity into account when selecting managers and considers 
male and female applicants as well as applicants with a non-binary gender identity. When making 
the final appointment, the focus is always on the professional and personal qualifications of the per-
son in question. 
Occupational health and safety 
Occupational safety is always a top priority for FRIEDRICH VORWERK. Employees are always ex-
posed to an increased health risk in prefabrication or on projects. We therefore set high standards 
for safety, especially when handling construction equipment, hazardous substances and other 
sources of danger. We promote the skills and awareness of our employees for safe working by offer-
ing regular training and further education. The entire FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group is SCCP-certified 
and therefore fulfils all legal requirements for a practised occupational health and safety manage-
ment system. Reportable accidents at work are recorded and analysed at regular intervals. Incidents 
in the area of occupational safety are always investigated with all those involved and the results 
implemented in concrete measures. New concepts are developed and trialled in practice in cooper-
ation with our clients. The Last Minute Risk Analysis (LMRA), which promotes a conscious approach 
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 45 
 
 
to routine work on the part of operational employees, plays a central role in our occupational safety 
concept.  
To prevent accidents from happening in the first place, employees receive regular training on all 
legally prescribed topics relevant to our value creation. In addition to general recurring topics, such 
as the organisation of occupational safety, fire safety and first aid, the focus in the past financial year 
was on a variety of other topics, such as the safe use of construction machinery, the safe execution 
of lifting work and learning from accidents and unsafe situations. Training in the form of an "excava-
tor camp", a new form of training essentially designed by experienced employees, was held again in 
the reporting year and is characterised by a very high practical component. It enables a comprehen-
sive exchange of experience, the learning of safe and efficient working methods and the gaining of 
experience in dealing with various attachments and complex working environments such as inner-
city pipeline construction. 
Special occupational health and safety topics, as well as aspects of energy and environmental man-
agement, are presented in a concise and easy-to-understand manner in so-called HSEQ (Health, 
Safety, Environment and Quality) monthly campaigns and made available to all employees in German 
and English, as well as in other languages if required. 
After the construction and energy industries have concentrated on technical and organisational as-
pects of occupational safety in the past, future success in occupational safety can only be achieved 
through a strong safety culture. The so-called Safety Culture Ladder (SCL) is an assessment method 
for measuring the safety awareness and conscious safe behaviour of each individual employee in the 
company. The higher the safety awareness in an organisation, the higher the level assigned on the 
SCL. Following the successful introduction of the SCL in the areas of cable construction, horizontal 
drilling technology and civil engineering, including hydraulic engineering, certification was success-
fully confirmed at level 3 in the surveillance audit.  
Social concerns 
Respectful and social interaction with our stakeholders on the customer and supplier side is a fun-
damental principle of our actions. We firmly believe that continuous product innovation, fair dealings 
with suppliers and constant dialogue with our customers are an important prerequisite for our busi-
ness success. The FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group is involved in numerous voluntary social projects at 
a local level. In addition to its role as an employer, the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group sustainably 
enhances the common good by cooperating with schools and sports clubs, for example.  
Particular mention should be made here of the independent Irene and Friedrich Vorwerk Foundation, 
which was set up by the founders of the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group and is still closely associated 
with the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group today. The social commitment of the Irene and Friedrich Vor-
werk Foundation ranges from promoting young scientists to supporting cultural events and helping 
the needy. In the cultural field, a large number of smaller and larger projects, such as local theatres 
or church communities, are supported. Two readings, which are organised annually, have become a 
permanent institution over the years and have become one of the cultural highlights for the majority 
of visitors. We also think about the members of our society who are in need of support. Both individ-
uals and local institutions are supported. 
Respecting human rights and combating corruption and bribery 
Respect for human rights: The FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group is deeply rooted in Germany and Europe 
and respects the human rights of its employees, suppliers and business partners in its day-to-day 
business. We do not see any risks of remuneration that is not in line with the market, unreasonable 
working hours, restrictions on freedom of assembly or equal rights, either at our company or at our 
suppliers. Disciplinary measures for possible violations are defined and communicated. FRIEDRICH 
VORWERK is committed to complying with internationally recognised human rights standards and 
does not tolerate any forms of slavery, forced labour, child labour, human trafficking or exploitation 
in its own business activities or supply chain. 
Combating corruption and bribery: We have always regarded compliance with legal regulations and 
guidelines as well as correct behaviour in business transactions as a central component of sustain-
able corporate governance. In order to adhere to this maxim, which we have always practised, we 
have formulated our basic principles in our corporate policy, which is continuously developed and 
communicated to all employees. The existing codes of conduct and the Group-wide anti-corruption 
guidelines serve as a framework for regulating behaviour within the company and towards third par-
ties. The Code of Conduct is concretised and further developed through guidelines and instructions. 
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 46 
 
 
By means of cyclical reporting structures, the respective management of the various Group compa-
nies is obliged to report regularly to the Management Board of the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group on 
the effectiveness of the respective internal management system and any incidents that have oc-
curred. 
 
Negative consequences and risks from business activities 
In our opinion, there are no significant risks from our business activities, our products or our services 
that could have a serious negative impact on employees, environmental and social issues or lead to 
a violation of human rights and corruption. 
Overview of key non-financial indicators 
The key figures relating to environmental issues can fluctuate significantly from year to year due to 
a divergent order structure. For example, energy intensity in relation to Group revenue only improved 
slightly in the reporting year despite record investments in modern machinery and equipment. How-
ever, this does not affect the long-term trend, which is leading to a reduction in energy intensity. 
 
2025
2024
Employee matters
Share of female employees in the total workforce
12%
12%
Number of apprentices
150
121
Number of employees in a dual study programme
10
8
I Reportable work accidents
(> 3 days absence without accident day) 
60 
35 
II Accidents at work (inability to work: 1-3 days without accident day)
12
5
I+II Total work accidents
72
40
Fatal work accidents
0
0
LTIFR - Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate
(Total accidents at work / 1 million hours) 
12 
10 
Environmental matters
Energy intensity in MWh / € million revenue
144
149
Energy intensity in MWh / per 1,000 hours worked
28
23
CO2 consumption Scope 1 + 2 in tonnes of CO2
26,768
19,611
Own consumption of electricity generated by PV system in MWh
334
270
Saved CO2 consumption Scope 1 + 2 in tonnes of CO2 through PV system
122
99
Social matters
Local donations and sponsorship in € thousand (culture, education, sport, 
social affairs)* 
10 
10 
* Excluding Irene and Friedrich Vorwerk Foundation
 
EU taxonomy 
In accordance with the EU Taxonomy Regulation and the supplementary delegated acts, we report 
below the share of our taxonomy-eligible Group-wide revenue, investments and operating expenses 
for the 2025 financial year in relation to the six EU environmental goals set out in the EU Taxonomy: 
"climate change mitigation", " climate change adaptation", "sustainable use and protection of water 
and marine resources", "transition to a circular economy", "pollution prevention and control" and 
"protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems". 
The aim of the EU taxonomy is to promote investment flows from the financial sector to companies 
involved in environmentally sustainable activities. It is intended to help the EU implement the Euro-
pean Green Deal, which commits to climate neutrality by 2050. The EU taxonomy is intended to 
create a common understanding of the environmental sustainability of activities and investments. 
Furthermore, the EU Taxonomy provides guidance on whether companies are contributing to sus-
tainable development with their economic activities. The regulation obliges companies to report on 
these economic activities. 
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 47 
 
 
Reporting for taxonomy-aligned economic activities has been applicable since the 2022 financial 
year. Taxonomy-aligned economic activities fulfil the technical assessment criteria and minimum 
protection criteria of the European Union. 
The Management Board of the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group has made the decision to measure tax-
onomy-aligned revenue, capital expenditure (CapEx) and operating expenditure (OpEx) with zero for 
the 2025 financial year. In the opinion of the Management Board, the applicability of the technical 
measurement and minimum protection criteria is not applicable in operational practice. The follow-
ing section therefore deals exclusively with the reporting of taxonomy-eligible economic activities. 
 
Procedure for the Impact Analysis 
In order to determine taxonomy eligibility, the first step was to identify the activities eligible for 
taxonomy at FRIEDRICH VORWERK with reference to the definitions in Annexes 1 and 2 of the NACE 
codes referenced in the legal act on Regulation (EU) 2020/852. In addition, the definitions of the key 
figures revenue, operating expenses (OpEx) and capital expenditure (CapEx) listed in Annex 1 to the 
Regulation were analysed and the data for the respective reference figures (denominator of the key 
figure) were collected. In the area of operating expenses in particular, the relevant cost types were 
identified. Approaches for estimating and collecting the corresponding revenues, operating ex-
penses and capital expenditures were then defined for the taxonomy-eligible activities. 
Due to the ongoing dynamic developments with regard to the wording of the EU Taxonomy Regula-
tion, there are currently still uncertainties of interpretation with regard to the wording and terms 
contained therein. Therefore, there may be adjustments to the impact analysis in the future. 
Identified taxonomy-eligible economic activities 
The following economic activities were identified as taxonomy-eligible: 
 Transmission and distribution of electricity 
 Transmission and distribution networks for renewable low CO2 gases  
 Production of renewable energy technologies 
 Construction, expansion and operation of water extraction, treatment and supply systems 
 District heating / cooling distribution 
 Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles 
 Acquisition and ownership of buildings 
 Power generation using photovoltaic technology 
Analysis and calculation 
The analysis for taxonomy-eligibility of revenue is based on revenue as we define and report it in the 
consolidated financial statements of the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group. 
The definition of the EU taxonomy for determining the relevant operating expenses includes ex-
penses for research and development, building renovation measures, short-term leasing, mainte-
nance and repair, as well as other direct expenses in connection with the daily maintenance of prop-
erty, plant and equipment, which are reported in the consolidated income statement under other 
operating expenses. In order to determine the proportion of operating expenses eligible for the tax-
onomy, the related operating expenses attributable to a project generating taxonomy-eligible reve-
nue were recognised on a pro rata basis as eligible for the taxonomy. 
Capital expenditures include additions to property, plant and equipment as well as intangible assets 
(including acquisitions, excluding goodwill according to the EU taxonomy). Taxonomy-eligible capital 
expenditures relate to assets and projects associated with taxonomy-eligible economic activities. In 
addition, individual capital expenditures from the acquisition of assets from taxonomy-eligible eco-
nomic activities and the implementation of individual measures to achieve climate targets have been 
taken into account. The various taxonomy-eligible capital expenditures were assessed in relation to 
the capital expenditures reported in the annual report.  
Materiality aspects were taken into account when determining the relevant activities.  
Results of the analysis 
The following table lists the taxonomy-eligible key figures. 
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 48 
 
 
EU taxonomy
 
 
Substantial contribution criteria
DNSH criteria
("Does Not Significantly Harm")
Proportion of revenue,
associated with taxonomy-aligned economic activities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Codes
Absolute revenue
Revenue share
Climate change mitigation
Adaptation to climate change
Water and marine resources
Circular economy
Environmental pollution
Biodiversity and ecosystems
Climate change mitigation
Adaptation to climate change
Water and marine resources
Circular economy
Environmental pollution
Biodiversity and ecosystems
Taxonomy-aligned revenue share 2025
Taxonomy-aligned revenue share 2024
Category (enabling activities)
Category (transitional activities)
Economic activities
in € million
in %
in % in % in % in % in % in % in % in % in % in % Y/N
Y/N
Y/N
Y/N
Y/N
Y/N in % in %
E
T
A. Taxonomy-eligible activities
A.1 Ecologically sustainable activities (taxonomy-aligned)
Revenue (A.1)
-
0.0
0.0%
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not taxonomy-aligned activities
Transmission and distribution of electricity
4.9
335.3
47.6%
District heating / cooling distribution
4.15
44.9
6.4%
Transmission and distribution networks for renewable low CO2 gases
4.14
42.0
6.0%
Manufacture of renewable energy technologies
3.1
35.6
5.1%
Construction, extension and operation of water collection, treatment and supply systems
5.1
22.4
3.2%
Revenue (A.2)
480.2
68.2%
Total (A.1 + A.2)
480.2
68.2%
B. Activities not eligible for taxonomy
Revenue of non-taxonomy-eligible activities (B)
224.2
31.8%
Total (A + B)
704.3 100.0%
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 49 
 
 
EU taxonomy
 
 
Substantial contribution criteria
DNSH criteria
("Does Not Significantly Harm")
Proportion of CapEx from goods and services,
associated with taxonomy-aligned economic activities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Codes
Absolute CapEx
CapEx share
Climate change mitigation
Adaptation to climate change
Water and marine resources
Circular economy
Environmental pollution
Biodiversity and ecosystems
Climate change mitigation
Adaptation to climate change
Water and marine resources
Circular economy
Environmental pollution
Biodiversity and ecosystems
Taxonomy-aligned CapEx share 2025
Taxonomy-aligned CapEx share 2024
Category (enabling activities)
Category (transition activities)
Economic activities
in € million
in %
in % in % in % in % in % in % in % in % in % in % Y/N
Y/N
Y/N
Y/N
Y/N
Y/N in % in %
E
T
A. Taxonomy-eligible activities
A.1 Ecologically sustainable activities (taxonomy-aligned)
CapEx (A.1)
-
0.0
0.0%
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not taxonomy-aligned activities
Transmission and distribution of electricity
4.9
14.4
25.0%
Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles
6.5
9.9
17.2%
District heating / cooling distribution
4.15
3.0
5.2%
Transmission and distribution networks for renewable low-CO2 gases
4.14
2.9
5.0%
Manufacture of renewable energy technologies
3.1
2.8
4.8%
Acquisition and ownership of buildings
7.7
1.4
2.4%
Construction, extension and operation of water collection, treatment and supply systems
5.1
1.3
2.2%
Electricity generation using solar photovoltaic technology
4.1
0.1
0.2%
CapEx (A.2)
35.7
62.0%
Total (A.1 + A.2)
35.7
62.0%
B. Activities not eligible for taxonomy
CapEx of non-taxonomy-eligible activities (B)
21.9
38.0%
Total (A + B)
57.6 100.0%
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 50 
 
 
EU taxonomy
 
 
Substantial contribution criteria
DNSH criteria
("Does Not Significantly Harm")
OpEx share from goods and services,
associated with taxonomy-aligned economic activities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Codes
Absolute OpEx
Share of OpEx
Climate change mitigation
Adaptation to climate change
Water and marine resources
Circular economy
Environmental pollution
Biodiversity and ecosystems
Climate change mitigation
Adaptation to climate change
Water and marine resources
Circular economy
Environmental pollution
Biodiversity and ecosystems
Taxonomy-aligned OpEx share 2025
Taxonomy-aligned OpEx share 2024
Category (enabling activities)
Category (transitional activities)
Economic activities
in € million
in %
in % in % in % in % in % in % in % in % in % in % Y/N
Y/N
Y/N
Y/N
Y/N
Y/N in % in %
E
T
A. Taxonomy-eligible activities
A.1 Ecologically sustainable activities (taxonomy-aligned)
OpEx (A.1)
-
0.0
0.0%
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not taxonomy-aligned activities
Transmission and distribution of electricity
4.9
20.5
47.6%
District heating /cooling distribution
4.15
2.7
6.4%
Transmission and distribution networks for renewable low CO2gases
4.14
2.6
6.0%
Manufacture of renewable energy technologies
3.1
2.2
5.1%
Construction, extension and operation of water collection, treatment and supply systems
5.1
1.4
3.2%
OpEx (A.2)
29.4
68.2%
Total (A.1 + A.2)
29.4
68.2%
B. Activities not eligible for taxonomy
OpEx of non-taxonomy-eligible activities (B)
13.7
31.8%
Total (A + B)
43.0 100.0%
 
    
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 51 
 
 
 
By way of the Delegated Regulation of 2 February 2022, the European Commission resolved the in-
clusion of nuclear energy and natural gas in the Taxonomy of environmentally sustainable economic 
activities. However, the natural gas activities relevant to the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group are linked 
to strict criteria that must be satisfied at the current time in order to qualify as taxonomy-eligible.  
It is therefore not conclusive at this time whether the capital expenditure by our business partners 
is taxonomy-aligned. Such activities are therefore generally not considered to be taxonomy-eligible 
under the Delegated Regulation of 2 February 2022. This applies to large areas of the activities of 
the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group that can nonetheless be in line with the environmental objectives 
of the European Union. 
 
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Index 
We have been publishing the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Index in our annual 
report since the 2020 reporting year in order to ensure greater transparency in the area of sustain-
ability. The SASB aims to enable transparent communication between companies and investors on 
key information relating to ESG data through standardised sustainability accounting. 
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 52 
 
 
Code
Comment
  
  
  
Environmental impact of the projects 
 
 
Number of incidents of non-compliance with 
environmental permits, standards and 
regulations 
IF-EN-
160a.1. 
In 2025, there were no incidents of non-
compliance with environmental permits, 
standards and other regulations. FRIE-
DRICH VORWERK has measures and 
controls in place to ensure compliance 
with applicable rules and regulations in 
its industry. 
Discussion of processes to assess and manage 
environmental risks associated with project de-
sign, siting, and construction 
IF-EN-
160a.2. 
FRIEDRICH VORWERK monitors the en-
vironmental impact of each project 
through the use of specific environmen-
tal management systems such as ISO 
14001 and ISO 50001. In addition, the 
Group holds industry-specific permits 
and licences and is certified as a special-
ist company in accordance with DVGW 
regulations and the German Water Re-
sources Act. 
Structural integrity and safety 
  
  
Amount of defect- and safety-related rework 
costs 
IF-EN-
250a.1. 
In 
2025, 
warranty 
rework 
costs 
amounted to €1,271 thousand (0.18% 
of revenue). 
Total amount of monetary losses resulting from 
legal proceedings related to deficiency and 
safety incidents 
IF-EN-
250a.2. 
In 2025, there were no monetary losses 
as a result of legal proceedings in con-
nection with deficiency and safety-re-
lated incidents. 
Health and safety of the workforce 
  
  
(1) TRIR and (2) mortality rates for (a) direct em-
ployees and (b) contract workers 
IF-EN-
320a.1. 
In 2025, the accident rate (TRIR)* per 
200,000 hours worked for direct em-
ployees was 2.4 and the work-related fa-
tality rate was 0.0.  
 
The data for temporary workers is in-
cluded in the accident rate. 
Life cycle impacts of buildings and infrastructure  
Number of (1) commissioned projects certified to 
a multi-dimensional third-party sustainability 
standard and (2) active projects seeking such 
certification 
IF-EN-
410a.1. 
In 2025, 22 biogas feed-in and upgrad-
ing plants were completed. For 2026, 42 
further projects of this type are under 
development and implementation. 
Discussion on the integration of energy and water 
efficiency in project planning and design 
IF-EN-
410a.2. 
Our customers are always focussed on 
energy and water efficient solutions and 
therefore their objectives are incorpo-
rated into our project planning and de-
sign. 
 
In every project, we advise our custom-
ers on energy and water optimisation so-
lutions and actively engage in innovation 
to meet their requirements. 
 
 
 
 
 
Combined Management and Group Management Report 
Page 53 
 
 
Climate impact of the business mix 
 
 
Level of backlog of (1) hydrocarbon related pro-
jects and (2) renewable energy projects 
IF-EN-
410b.1. 
The order backlog as at 31 Decem-
ber 2025 amounted to €160 million for 
(1) hydrocarbon-related projects and 
€822 million for (2) renewable energy 
projects. 
Amount of cancellations of hydrocarbon-related 
projects 
IF-EN-
410b.2. 
There were no cancellations in 2025. 
Amount of the order backlog of projects that are 
related to climate protection but not directly to 
the energy industry  
IF-EN-
410b.3. 
The order backlog as at 31 Decem-
ber 2025 does not include any projects 
that are related to climate protection but 
not directly to the energy industry. 
Business ethics 
 
 
(1) Number of active projects and (2) order back-
log in the 20 countries with the lowest scores in 
Transparency International's Corruption Percep-
tion Index 
IF-EN-
510a.1. 
There are currently no projects in any of 
the 20 countries with the lowest scores 
in Transparency International's Corrup-
tion Perception Index. 
Total amount of monetary losses resulting from 
legal proceedings related to allegations of (1) 
bribery or corruption and (2) anti-competitive 
practices 
IF-EN-
510a.2. 
In 2025, there were no monetary losses 
from legal proceedings related to allega-
tions of (1) bribery or corruption and (2) 
anti-competitive practices. 
Description of policies and practices to prevent 
(1) bribery and corruption and (2) anti-competi-
tive behaviour in the project bidding process 
IF-EN-
510a.3. 
In order to prevent bribery, corruption, 
extortion and embezzlement and to en-
sure a high level of integrity in our busi-
ness dealings, we applied the revised 
Compliance Management System from 
2021 in the 2025 financial year. Non-
compliance with the guidelines and reg-
ulations is expressly not tolerated.  
* Includes only incidents that were recorded in connection with our operating business 
 
 
Tostedt, 24 March 2026 
 
The Management Board 
 
 
Torben Kleinfeldt 
 
 
Tim Hameister 
Chief Executive Officer 
 
Chief Financial Officer 
 
 
 
 
IFRS Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 54 
 
 
 
IFRS Consolidated Financial Statements 
2025 
 
IFRS consolidated income statement 
 
IFRS consolidated income statement
Notes
1 Jan -
31 Dec 2025 
1 Jan -
31 Dec 2024 
€k
€k
 
 
k 
 
Revenue
III.1.
704,326
498,353
Operating performance
704,326
498,353
Income from equity investments
III.2.
21,032
6,029
Other operating income
III.3.
8,563
5,859
Total performance
733,921
510,241
Cost of raw materials and supplies
-87,712
-61,748
Cost of purchased services
-235,315
-175,725
Cost of materials
III.4.
-323,027
-237,473
Wages and salaries
-139,976
-114,551
Social security and pension costs
-43,828
-34,744
Staff costs
III.5.
-183,804
-149,295
Other operating expenses
III.6.
-63,817
-42,945
Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation 
and amortisation (EBITDA) 
 
163,273 
80,529 
Depreciation and amortisation
II.1.
-26,556
-21,248
Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT)
136,717
59,281
Finance income
III.7.
2,559
1,262
Finance expenses
III.8.
-1,610
-1,426
Earnings attributable to non-controlling interests
III.8.
-9,729
-3,818
Net finance costs
-8,781
-3,981
Earnings before taxes (EBT)
127,936
55,300
Income tax expense
III.9.
-41,504
-19,101
Other taxes
III.9.
-510
-496
Profit or loss for the period
85,922
35,703
Non-controlling interests
579
68
Consolidated net profit
86,501
35,771
Earnings per share (in €)
III.10.
4.33
1.79
 
 
 
 
IFRS consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
Page 55 
 
 
 
IFRS consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
 
IFRS consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Notes
1 Jan -
31 Dec 2025 
1 Jan -
31 Dec 2024 
€k
€k
 
 
 
 
Profit or loss for the period
85,922
35,703
Items that may be subsequently reclassified 
to profit or loss 
 
 
 
Changes in fair value of bonds
III.11.
-3
0
Currency translation differences
II.11.3
7
7
deferred taxes thereon
III. 11
1
0
Items that cannot be subsequently reclassified
to profit or loss 
 
 
 
Changes in fair value of shares
III.11.
74
274
Pension reserve
II.11.3
320
-157
deferred taxes thereon
III. 11
-75
38
Other comprehensive income after taxes
323
162
Comprehensive income for the financial period
86,245
35,865
thereof attributable to
- Shareholders of the parent company
86,798
35,945
- Non-controlling interests
-553
-80
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IFRS consolidated statement of financial position 
Page 56 
 
 
 
IFRS consolidated statement of financial position 
 
IFRS consolidated statement of financial position
Notes
31 Dec 2025
31 Dec 2024
Assets
audited
audited
€k
€k
 
 
 
 
Non-current assets
Concessions, industrial property rights and similar 
rights 
II.3. 
999 
1,028 
Goodwill
II.2.
4,450
4,450
Intangible assets
5,449
5,477
Land and buildings including buildings on third-party 
land 
II.4. 
55,119 
50,920 
Technical equipment and machinery
II.4.
59,029
39,728
Other equipment, operating and office equipment
II.4.
41,677
32,973
Advance payments and assets under construction
II.4.
1,959
4,775
Property, plant and equipment
157,784
128,397
Equity investments
II.5.
27,626
9,310
Long-term securities
II.5.
5,987
1,982
Financial assets
33,613
11,293
Deferred tax assets
II.17.
6,081
7,510
202,927
152,677
 
 
 
 
Current assets
Raw materials and supplies
II.6.
8,770
6,715
Work in progress
II.6.
127
164
Advance payments
II.6.
4,653
168
Inventories
13,550
7,047
Trade receivables
II.7.
25,931
40,475
Contract assets
II.8.
54,029
53,880
Other current assets
II.9.
5,869
8,765
Trade receivables and other current assets
85,829
103,120
Securities
II.5.
7,576
0
Derivative financial instruments
II.5.
17
69
Financial assets
7,593
69
Cash in hand
II.10.
22
9
Bank balances
II.10.
266,016
174,639
Cash in hand, bank balances
266,038
174,647
373,011
284,883
 
 
 
 
Total assets
575,938
437,560
 
 
 
 
 
 
IFRS consolidated statement of financial position 
Page 57 
 
 
 
IFRS consolidated statement of financial position 
 
IFRS consolidated statement of financial position
Notes
31 Dec 2025
31 Dec 2024
Liabilities
audited
audited
€k
€k
 
 
 
 
Equity
Issued capital
II.11.1
20,000
20,000
Capital reserve
II.11.2
76,204
76,204
Retained earnings and other reserves
II.11.3
189,654
108,837
Non-controlling interests
II.11.4
-606
-35
285,253
205,006
 
 
 
 
Non-current liabilities
Liabilities to banks
II.13.
11,260
13,462
Liabilities to non-controlling interests
II.13.
16,614
8,534
Liabilities from participation rights
II.13.
10,213
10,213
Lease liabilities
II.16.
1,151
2,185
Pension provisions
II.12.
1,779
2,122
Deferred tax liabilities
II.17.
47,277
24,026
88,294
60,541
 
 
 
 
Current liabilities
Liabilities to banks
II.13.
2,203
4,534
Contract liabilities
II.13.
84,084
80,750
Trade payables
II.13.
5,853
4,369
Liabilities to non-controlling interests
II.13.
3,767
3,225
Other liabilities
II.14.
46,225
31,839
Lease liabilities
II.16.
3,181
2,192
Provisions with liability character
II.15.1
33,521
31,447
Tax provisions
II.15.2
15,055
7,653
Other provisions
II.15.1
8,502
6,004
202,391
172,012
 
 
 
 
Total equity and liabilities
575,938
437,560
 
 
 
 
IFRS consolidated statement of cash flows 
Page 58 
 
 
 
IFRS consolidated statement of cash flows 
 
IFRS consolidated statement of cash flows
1 Jan -
31 Dec 2025 
1 Jan -
31 Dec 2024 
€k
€k
 
 
 
1. Cash flow from operating activities
Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT)
136,717
59,281
Adjustments for non-cash transactions:
Depreciation and amortisation
26,556
21,248
Increase (+), decrease (-) in provisions
2,476
-954
Losses (+), gains (-) from disposal of property, plant and equipment
-348
60
Result from equity investments
-21,032
-6,029
Other non-cash expenses and income
978
334
8,630
14,659
Change in working capital:
Increase (-), decrease (+) in inventories, trade receivables 
and other assets
7,344
8,159
Decrease (-), increase (+) in trade payables and other liabilities
21,375
74,767
28,719
82,926
Income taxes paid
-6,130
-9,231
Other taxes paid
-510
-496
Interest received
2,468
1,262
Dividend proceeds from equity investments
2,873
7,183
-1,299
-1,281
Cash flow from operating activities
172,767
155,584
 
 
 
2. Cash flow from investing activities
Investments (-), divestments (+) in intangible assets
-285
-185
Investments (-), divestments (+) in property, plant and equipment
-51,625
-35,646
Investments in financial assets and securities
-11,519
0
Proceeds from financial assets and securities
0
359
Business combinations (less cash received)
-1,145
-126
Cash flow from investing activities
-64,573
-35,597
 
 
 
3. Cash flow from financing activities
Profit distribution to shareholders
-6,000
-2,400
Payments to non-controlling interests
-1,109
-570
Proceeds from borrowing financial loans
0
8,000
Repayments of financial loans
-4,530
-2,902
Repayments of lease liabilities
-3,583
-2,587
Interest payments
-1,584
-1,413
Cash flow from financing activities
-16,805
-1,872
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period
Change in cash and cash equivalents
91,389
118,115
Effects of exchange rate changes (non-cash)
2
2
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period
174,647
56,530
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period
266,038
174,647
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IFRS consolidated statement of changes in equity 
Page 59 
 
 
IFRS consolidated statement of changes in equity 
IFRS consolidated statement of changes in equity
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Retained earnings
 
Issued
capital 
Capital
reserve 
Currency
translation 
Fair value
reserve 
Pension
reserve 
Generated 
group 
equity
 
Attributable 
to share- 
holders 
Non-
controlling 
interests 
Consolidated
equity 
€k
€k
€k
€k
€k
€k
€k
€k
€k
1 Jan 2024
20,000
76,204
21
-325
354
75,243
171,497
45
171,542
Dividends paid
0
0
0
0
0
-2,400
-2,400
0
-2,400
Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income
0
0
7
267
-100
0
173
-12
162
Consolidated net profit
0
0
0
0
0
35,771
35,771
-68
35,703
Total comprehensive income
0
0
7
267
-100
35,771
35,945
-80
35,865
31 Dec 2024
20,000
76,204
27
-58
254
108,614
205,042
-35
205,006
 
Dividends paid
0
0
0
0
0
-6,000
-6,000
0
-6,000
Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income
0
0
7
60
231
0
297
26
323
Consolidated net profit
0
0
0
0
0
86,501
86,501
-579
85,922
Total comprehensive income
0
0
7
60
231
86,501
86,798
-553
86,245
Change in non-controlling interests
0
0
0
0
0
19
19
-18
1
31 Dec 2025
20,000
76,204
34
2
484
189,134
285,858
-606
285,253
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 60 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
I. Methods and principles 
1. Basic accounting information 
1.1 Information on the company 
Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE has its registered office at Harburger Straße 19, 21255 Tostedt, Ger-
many. It is entered in the commercial register of the Tostedt District Court under the number HRB 
208170. It is the parent company of the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group.  
Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE is a public limited company listed in the Prime Standard of the Frankfurt 
Stock Exchange. 
The FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group is a medium-sized group whose core business model is the design, 
creation and operation of energy infrastructure. 
The consolidated financial statements of Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE for the 2025 financial year are 
approved by the Supervisory Board of Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE on 24 March 2026 and will be 
published on the website of FRIEDRICH VORWERK on 31 March 2026 and filed in the Federal Ga-
zette. 
1.2 Accounting principles 
The consolidated financial statements of the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group as at 31 December 2025 
have been prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) 
adopted and published by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) as applicable in the 
European Union (EU). The term IFRS comprises the International Accounting Standards (IAS) still in 
force, the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and the interpretations of the Standing 
Interpretations Committee (SIC) and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Commit-
tee (IFRIC). The consolidated financial statements have been supplemented by a group management 
report in accordance with Section 315 HGB and additional notes in accordance with Section 315e 
HGB. 
Unless otherwise stated, all figures in the notes to the consolidated financial statements refer to 31 
December 2025 or the financial year from 1 January to 31 December 2025. Rounding differences 
may occur in percentages and figures in this report. 
Application of new and amended standards 
There were no significant changes to accounting standards in the 2025 financial year that have an 
impact on these consolidated financial statements.  
The following amended standards were applicable for the first time in the 2025 financial year 
Regulation
Title
Effects
 
 
 
IAS 21
Amendment - Lack of Exchangeability
None
 
 
 
 
Accounting standards to be applied after the financial year 
The following newly issued standards or standards approved for application by the EU Commission 
or amendments to standards or interpretations that were not mandatory were not applied early in 
these consolidated financial statements. If the amendments affect the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group, 
the future impact on the consolidated financial statements is still being assessed or is not material. 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 61 
 
 
 
Regulation
Title
Application Effects
 
 
 
 
Annual improvements to IFRS - Issue 11
1 Jan 2026
no material effects
IFRS 9,
IFRS 7
Amendment - Classification and Measurement 
of Financial Instruments
1 Jan 2026 
no material effects 
IFRS 9,
IFRS 7
Amendment - Contracts Referencing Nature-dependent 
Electricity
1 Jan 2026 
no material effects 
IFRS 18
Presentation and Disclosures in Financial Statements
1 Jan 2027
still under review
IFRS 19
Subsidiaries without Public Accountability - Disclosures
1 Jan 2027
no material effects
IAS 21
Translation to a Hyperinflationary Presentation Currency
1 Jan 2027
no material effects
 
Any standards not listed in the overview are of minor importance for the FRIEDRICH VORWERK 
Group. 
Effects of IFRS 18 
In April 2024, the IASB published IFRS 18 "Presentation and Disclosure in Financial Statements". 
IFRS 18 requires additional, defined subtotals in the income statement, disclosures on performance 
measures determined by management, adds new principles for summarising and disaggregating in-
formation and makes limited amendments to IAS 7 "Statement of Cash Flows". IFRS 18 replaces 
IAS 1 "Presentation of Financial Statements". The new standard is to be applied for the first time for 
financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2027. Earlier application is permitted. First-time ap-
plication must be retrospective. The effects of first-time application on the consolidated financial 
statements are currently being reviewed. 
1.3 Business combinations 
Two business combinations were carried out in the financial year: 
Stade 
On 1 April 2025, FRIEDRICH VORWERK acquired the Wischhafen branch, including the operating site 
in Stade, from Gerhard Rode Rohrleitungsbau GmbH & Co. KG as part of an asset deal. With around 
40 employees, the branch is expected to generate annual revenues in the mid-single-digit million € 
range. The assets were acquired by Vorwerk Stade GmbH (formerly: Vorwerk Verwaltungs GmbH).  
The initial consolidation took place on 1 April 2025 and no goodwill arose from this business combi-
nation. 
The acquisition costs can be allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, measured at 
their fair values, as follows: 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 62 
 
 
 
Carrying amount 
before 
PPA
Fair value 
according to 
PPA
in €k
 
 
 
Assets and liabilities
Property, plant and equipment
665
808
Liabilities and provisions
0
143
 
 
 
Identified net assets acquired
665
665
 
 
 
Determination of the difference
Purchase price for asset deal
665
 
 
 
Total purchase price
665
Identified net assets acquired (100%)
665
 
 
 
Goodwill (+)
0
 
 
 
Net cash outflow from the acquisition
681
 
The business combination was recognised using the acquisition method. The value of the remeas-
ured net assets totalled €665 thousand at the time of initial consolidation. The incidental transaction 
costs totalled €16 thousand. Since the date of initial consolidation, revenue of €2,169 thousand and 
a loss of €946 thousand have been recognised from the acquired business. As the acquired business 
was an integrated part of Gerhard Rode Rohrleitungsbau GmbH & Co. KG until March 2025, it is not 
possible to reliably determine the revenue and earnings from January to March 2025 separately for 
the business or would involve disproportionately high costs. The business combination has no ma-
terial impact on the Group's net assets, financial position and results of operations for the 2025 
financial year, which is why no separate disclosures are made. 
The purchase price for the acquired assets totalled €665 thousand and was paid in full in cash.  
The purchase price allocation on which the initial consolidation is based is provisional, as findings 
may arise after the purchase price allocation has been prepared that may lead to subsequent adjust-
ments within one year of acquisition. These changes may arise in particular in the valuation of prop-
erty, plant and equipment. 
Brunn 
On 1 August 2025, FRIEDRICH VORWERK acquired the Brunn branch from Christoffers GmbH as part 
of an asset deal. With around 35 employees, the branch is expected to generate annual revenue in 
the low single-digit million range. The assets were acquired by Gottfried Puhlmann GmbH 
Havelländische Bauunternehmung. 
The initial consolidation took place on 1 August 2025 and no goodwill arose from this business com-
bination. 
The acquisition costs can be allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, measured at 
their fair values, as follows: 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 63 
 
 
 
Carrying amount 
before 
PPA
Fair value
according to 
PPA
in €k
 
 
 
Assets and liabilities
Property, plant and equipment
558
589
Liabilities and provisions
78
109
 
 
 
Identified net assets acquired
480
480
 
 
 
Determination of the difference
Purchase price for asset deal
480
 
 
 
Total purchase price
480
Identified net assets acquired (100%)
480
 
 
 
Goodwill (+)
0
 
 
 
Net cash outflow from the acquisition
482
 
The business combination was recognised using the acquisition method. The value of the revalued 
net assets at the time of initial consolidation was €480 thousand. The incidental transaction costs 
totalled €2 thousand. As the acquired business was an integral part of Christoffers GmbH until 
July 2025 and is an integral part of Gottfried Puhlmann GmbH Havelländische Bauunternehmung 
since August 2025, it is not possible to reliably determine the revenue and earnings separately for 
the business in the financial year or would involve disproportionately high costs. The business com-
bination has no material impact on the Group's net assets, financial position and results of opera-
tions for the 2025 financial year, which is why no separate disclosures are made. 
The purchase price for the acquired assets totalled €480 thousand and was paid in full in cash.  
The purchase price allocation on which the initial consolidation is based is provisional, as findings 
may arise after the purchase price allocation has been prepared that may lead to subsequent adjust-
ments within one year of acquisition. These changes may arise in particular in the valuation of prop-
erty, plant and equipment. 
 
Overall effects of the business combination 
For the reasons stated above, no separate disclosures are made for the business combinations (asset 
deals) with regard to the overall effects (revenue and earnings) of the Group. The business combi-
nations have no material impact on the Group's net assets, financial position and results of opera-
tions for the 2025 financial year. 
No goodwill was recognised from the business combinations. Businesses consolidated for the first 
time are consolidated at the time of acquisition or at a most recent reporting date possible, provided 
that this does not result in any material changes compared to consolidation at the time of acquisition. 
 
1.4 Corporate and structural changes in 2025 
Friedrich Vorwerk SE & Co. KG sold 5% of the shares in 5C-Tech GmbH on 28 February 2025, meaning 
that Friedrich Vorwerk SE & Co. KG now holds a 65% stake in the company.  
Seyde und Coburg Kathodischer Korrosionsschutz GmbH was merged with Vorwerk Pipeline- und 
Anlagenservice GmbH with effect from 30 September 2025; the merger has not yet been entered in 
the commercial register. 
Vorwerk-EEE GmbH was renamed Vorwerk Gas Technology GmbH in the period under review. In ad-
dition, Vorwerk Verwaltungs GmbH was renamed Vorwerk Stade GmbH. 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 64 
 
 
 
2. Scope of consolidation 
In addition to Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE as the parent company, the companies listed below are 
included in the consolidated financial statements by way of full consolidation. The shareholdings are 
determined by multiplying the respective company shares. The companies listed in bold hold direct 
or indirect interests in the companies listed below. 
 
Companies included in the consolidated financial statements
Shareholding
Name and registered office of the company
in %
 
 
Subsidiaries (consolidated)
Friedrich Vorwerk Management SE, Tostedt, Germany
100.00
Friedrich Vorwerk SE & Co KG, Tostedt, Germany
89.93
5C-Tech GmbH, Tostedt, Germany
58.45
Bohlen & Doyen Anlagenbau Holding GmbH, Tostedt, Germany
89.93
Bohlen & Doyen Service und Anlagentechnik GmbH, Wiesmoor, Germany
89.93
Bohlen & Doyen Bau Holding GmbH, Tostedt, Germany
89.93
Bohlen & Doyen Bau GmbH, Wiesmoor, Germany
89.93
EAS Einhaus Anlagenservice GmbH, Geeste, Germany
89.93
European Pipeline Services GmbH, Tostedt, Germany
89.93
Gottfried Puhlmann GmbH Havelländische Bauunternehmung, Ludwigsfelde, Germany
89.93
Gottfried Puhlmann GmbH, Marne, Germany
89.93
Gottfried Puhlmann Hamburg GmbH, Tostedt, Germany
89.93
Hempel Aluminiumbau GmbH, Storkow (Mark), Germany
89.93
Hempel Construction B.V., Amsterdam, Netherlands
89.93
KORUPP GmbH, Twist, Germany
89.93
Vorwerk - ASA GmbH, Herne, Germany
89.93
Vorwerk Gas Technology GmbH, Tostedt, Germany
89.93
Vorwerk Pipeline- und Anlagenservice GmbH, Petersberg, Germany
89.93
Vorwerk Stade GmbH, Tostedt, Germany
89.93
 
The following table shows associates and joint ventures included in the consolidated financial state-
ments. The shareholdings are shown from the perspective of the Friedrich Vorwerk SE & Co. KG sub-
group. 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 65 
 
 
 
Name of the company
Shareholding 
in %
Joint ventures (ARGEs)
ARGE Anlagenbau VDS Achim West
50.00%
ARGE Bauausführung ETL 182
40.00%
ARGE Bavaria Loop Süd
33.33%
ARGE DOW Ohrensen K28
50.00%
ARGE EGL 442
58.00%
ARGE EWA
50.00%
ARGE BVM BalWin4 + LanWin1
50.00%
ARGE BVM CHC Emden
33.33%
ARGE ETL 178 Walle - Wolfsburg
50.00%
ARGE EUGAL Los 7+8
37.50%
ARGE Flugplatz WTM IT-Ltg
50.00%
ARGE Get H2 Lingen
10.00%
ARGE Kabeltrasse A310
50.00%
ARGE Kabeltrasse GSH
40.00%
ARGE Kabeltrasse Mehringen
45.00%
ARGE Kabeltrasse SüdLink PFA 3
45.00%
ARGE Kabeltrasse Verden
50.00%
ARGE Kabeltrasse WMC
40.00%
ARGE Konverter A-Nord
33.33%
ARGE KÜA A310
50.00%
ARGE KÜA Beverbruch
50.00%
ARGE KÜA Verden
50.00%
ARGE LNG Brunsbüttel
50.00%
ARGE NWKG – 3. BA
50.00%
ARGE NWKG – 4. BA
50.00%
ARGE OGE Hep
33.30%
ARGE RamBO SuedLink
50.00%
ARGE SEL 01
50.00%
ARGE SEL 02
50.00%
ARGE SEL 03
50.00%
ARGE STORAG ETZEL VT 8 / VT 16
50.00%
ARGE UW Sengwarden
50.00%
ARGE VS Rehden II
40.00%
ARGE VS Würselen - MCC-I
45.00%
ARGE WAD
50.00%
ARGE Werne-Schlüchtern
50.00%
ARGE Zeelink 3+5 (Beistellung)
50.00%
Dach-ARGE A310 Tunnel Henstedt
33.73%
Dach-ARGE AL Nonnendorf
50.00%
Dach-ARGE Ausbau Mantelrohre 2023/2024
50.00%
Dach-ARGE B3 MLK Brücke Los 2
58.10%
Dach-ARGE Baltrum Büsum
33.33%
Dach-ARGE Elbchaussee 1. BA
36.00%
Dach-ARGE Elbchaussee 2. BA
35.00%
Dach-ARGE Ersatzneubau Fernwärmetrasse 60 Passendorfer Wiesen Abschnitt A, Teil 2
Brückenneubau
45.00%
Dach-ARGE ETL 179.200
50.00%
Dach-ARGE ETL 182 Achim Elbe Süd
50.00%
Dach-ARGE Fehlstellensanierung
50.00%
Dach-ARGE Fehlstellensanierung 2021 - Stationssanierung AS Asbeck
50.00%
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 66 
 
 
 
Name of the company
Shareholding 
in %
Dach-ARGE Fehlstellensanierung 2021 - Stationssanierung AS Frömern, AS Bötersen
50.00%
Dach-ARGE Fehlstellensanierung 2021 - Stationssanierung Campus Rehden
50.00%
Dach-ARGE Fehlstellensanierung 2021 - Umbau K 460 BASF
50.00%
Dach-ARGE Fehlstellensanierung 2021 - Umhüllungen
50.00%
Dach-ARGE HD-Leitung Iserlohn
50.90%
Dach-ARGE HD-Leitung Kaisersesch
45.76%
Dach-ARGE Kabeltrasse A250 Mehringen
50.00%
Dach-ARGE Kabeltrasse A310
50.00%
Dach-ARGE Kabeltrasse Ganderkesee - St. Hülfe
50.00%
Dach-ARGE Kabeltrasse WMC
50.00%
Dach-ARGE L06035 HDD Querung A44 - Werl
90.00%
Dach-ARGE Mainka Puhlmann
50.00%
Dach-ARGE Ostwind 3 Los 1 Anlandung
33.33%
Dach-ARGE RamBo WMC Kabelzug
38.68%
Dach-ARGE Refill PPS Vorwerk
53.00%
Dach-ARGE RV Ruhrtalleitung BA 2+3
45.00%
Dach-ARGE Stadtbeleuchtung II
50.00%
Dach-ARGE TAV
50.00%
Dach-ARGE TAV Rohrbau II
50.00%
Dach-ARGE Technische Dienstleistung Gasunie Deutschland
33.30%
Dach-ARGE VDS Achim West GU Lot 1
19.25%
Dach-ARGE WUV Dithmarschen Profilierungsarbeiten 2025
50.00%
Dach-ARGE ZEELINK Los 3 - (bis) 5
25.00%
Dach-ARGE Zielnetzplanung Aachen
33.30%
JV Baltic Pipe
33.33%
 
3. Principles of consolidation 
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of Friedrich Vorwerk 
Group SE and its subsidiaries as of 31 December of each financial year. The financial statements of 
the subsidiaries are prepared using uniform accounting policies and for the same reporting period 
as the financial statements of the parent company. 
The reporting date for all subsidiaries included in the consolidated financial statements is 31 De-
cember of the respective financial year. 
3.1 Business combinations 
Business combinations, including asset deals in which a business operation is acquired within the 
meaning of IFRS 3, are recognised using the acquisition method. Identifiable assets and liabilities 
are recognised at fair value at the time of acquisition. 
Any difference between the consideration paid and the net assets is recognised as goodwill. If the 
fair value of the net assets attributable to the Group is higher than the acquisition cost of the shares, 
this results in a negative difference, which is recognised immediately in profit or loss after a further 
review of the purchase price allocation or fair values of the acquired assets, liabilities and contingent 
liabilities. If not all shares in a subsidiary have been acquired, non-controlling interests are initially 
recognised at the time of acquisition at their corresponding share of the identifiable net assets of 
the acquired company. 
3.2 Subsidiaries 
Subsidiaries are companies over which Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE exercises control. Control exists 
when a company has power over another company. This is the case when rights exist that confer the 
current ability to direct the relevant activities. Significant activities are those activities that have a 
material influence on the return of a company. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on 
which the possibility of control exists and cease to be consolidated when the possibility of control 
no longer exists. 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 67 
 
 
 
3.3 Non-controlling interests 
Non-controlling interests are initially measured at the time of acquisition at their corresponding 
share of the identifiable net assets of the acquired company. Changes in the Group's interest in a 
subsidiary that do not lead to a loss of control are recognised as equity transactions. 
3.4 Associated companies 
Companies in which the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group holds between 20.0% and 50.0% of the share 
capital are generally classified as associates if the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group exercises a signifi-
cant but not a controlling influence. In cases of controlling influence, the respective companies are 
fully consolidated (see section 3.1).  
Associated companies are included in the consolidated financial statements using the equity 
method. Associated companies that are not recognised at equity due to immateriality are measured 
at amortised cost. 
3.5 Joint arrangements 
Joint ventures are those in which the Group exercises joint control together with a third party in 
accordance with IFRS 11. Joint ventures are recognised in the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group using 
the equity method and reported under financial assets. Joint ventures that are not accounted for 
using the equity method due to immateriality are measured at amortised cost and also reported un-
der financial assets.  
Working groups (ARGEs) are particularly common in Germany. According to a statement by the In-
stitute of Public Auditors in Germany (IDW), the typical German ARGE fulfils the requirements for 
classification as a joint venture. Results from ARGEs are recognised proportionately under income 
from equity investments. Receivables from and liabilities to ARGEs include in particular incoming 
and outgoing payments as well as cost allocations and are recognised under trade receivables or 
other liabilities. 
 
4. Presentation of accounting policies 
4.1 General information 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and, with the 
exception of the revaluation of certain financial instruments, on the basis of historical cost. Historical 
cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration paid in exchange for the asset. 
The statement of financial position has been structured according to current and non-current assets 
and liabilities. The income statement is prepared using the nature of expense method to determine 
the consolidated net profit for the year. 
4.2 Reporting currency 
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in euro, as this is the currency on which the 
majority of Group transactions are based. Unless otherwise stated, all figures are rounded up or 
down to the nearest thousand of euro in accordance with commercial rounding. Amounts are stated 
in euros (€), thousands of euros (€ thousand) and millions of euros (€ million). 
4.3 Foreign currency translation 
Currency translation is carried out in accordance with the provisions of IAS 21. 
The items included in the financial statements of the respective company are measured using the 
functional currency of the Group company. 
Foreign currency transactions are initially translated into the functional currency at the spot rate 
applicable on the date of the transaction. 
Monetary assets and liabilities in a foreign currency are translated into the functional currency on 
each reporting date using the closing rate. All currency differences are recognised in profit or loss. 
Non-monetary items that are measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are translated at the 
exchange rate on the date of the transaction. 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 68 
 
 
 
Non-monetary items that are measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated at the ex-
change rate applicable at the time the fair value is determined. 
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into euros at the closing rate. Income 
and expenses are translated at the average exchange rate for the financial year. The resulting trans-
lation differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.  
4.4 Intangible assets 
Intangible assets are recognised and initially measured at cost in accordance with the criteria of 
IAS 38 and, in the case of business combinations, at fair value in accordance with IFRS 3. 
Costs for research activities are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred, 
whereas development costs are capitalised if the capitalisation criteria of IAS 38 are cumulatively 
met. 
If the criteria are not met, development costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which 
they are incurred. 
Intangible assets (excluding goodwill) are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated 
useful life. 
With the exception of goodwill, the Group has no intangible assets with an indefinite useful life. 
The acquisition costs of new software are capitalised and treated as an intangible asset if these costs 
are not an integral part of the associated hardware. Software is amortised on a straight-line basis 
over a period of 3 to 5 years. 
Costs incurred to restore or maintain the future economic benefits that the company originally ex-
pected are recognised as an expense. 
Gains and losses from the disposal of intangible assets are calculated as the difference between the 
net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and recognised in profit or loss in the 
period in which the asset is disposed of. 
4.5 Goodwill  
Goodwill from business combinations is the residual amount of the excess of the cost of the business 
combination over the Group's interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and con-
tingent liabilities of the acquired company. 
Goodwill is not amortised but allocated to a cash-generating unit ("CGU") as part of the business 
combination, the carrying amount of which is tested for impairment at least once a year in accord-
ance with the provisions of IAS 36. 
If a subsidiary is sold, the amount of goodwill attributable to the subsidiary is recognised when de-
termining the gain or loss on disposal. 
4.6 Property, plant and equipment 
Expenditure on property, plant and equipment is recognised and initially measured at cost in accord-
ance with the criteria of IAS 16 and, in the case of business combinations, at fair value in accordance 
with IFRS 3. 
Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the expected useful life, assuming a residual 
value of €0.00. The following estimated useful lives are used for the individual asset groups: 
 
Buildings and outdoor facilities: 
5 to 50 years 
 
Technical equipment and machinery: 
1 to 21 years 
 
Computer hardware: 
3 years 
 
Other office equipment: 
2 to 23 years 
Land is not depreciated.  
Advance payments made and property, plant and equipment under construction are not depreciated 
until completion. 
If items of property, plant and equipment are sold or scrapped, the corresponding acquisition costs 
and accumulated depreciation are derecognised; any gain or loss realised on disposal is recognised 
in profit or loss. 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 69 
 
 
 
4.7 Leasing 
Leases are identified in accordance with the provisions of IFRS 16. Leases are recognised by capi-
talising a right-of-use asset and recognising the present value of the lease payments as a liability 
(lease liability).  
As a lessee, the Group primarily utilises real estate, motor vehicles and other technical equipment 
and machinery. 
The lease payments are discounted at the interest rate implicit in the lease, if this can be determined. 
Otherwise, they are discounted using the incremental borrowing rate. The FRIEDRICH VORWERK 
Group generally applies the incremental borrowing rate. This incremental borrowing rate as a risk-
adjusted interest rate is derived for specific maturities and currencies and also takes into account 
the creditworthiness of the individual Group companies.  
The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost in accordance with IFRS 16.24 at the commence-
ment date. Subsequent measurement is based on the cost model with straight-line amortisation of 
the right-of-use asset and any remeasurements due to impairment losses or remeasurements of the 
lease liability from contract modifications. 
In the case of contracts that contain both lease and non-lease components, these components are 
generally separated.  
Some leases, particularly for property, contain renewal options. When determining the lease term, 
such options are only taken into account if they are reasonably certain. The assessment of whether 
the options are exercised with sufficient certainty has an impact on the term of the lease and can 
therefore significantly influence the measurement of the lease liabilities or right-of-use assets. 
The FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group makes use of the IFRS 16 rule with regard to the non-recognition 
of right-of-use assets and lease liabilities in the context of leases with a low value (i.e. the value of 
the underlying asset is €5,000 or less when new) and short-term leases (remaining term no longer 
than twelve months). The lease instalments associated with these leases are recognised as an ex-
pense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.  
In rare cases, the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group acts as lessor. These contracts are immaterial for the 
company's consolidated financial statements.  
4.8 Borrowing costs 
Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred, unless the 
borrowing costs are incurred for the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets. In 
this case, the borrowing costs are added to the production costs of these assets. Interest expenses 
are capitalised for qualifying assets. 
4.9 Impairment of non-financial assets 
Non-financial assets are tested for impairment if facts or changes in circumstances indicate that the 
carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. For the impairment test, the recoverable 
amount of the asset or cash-generating unit (CGU) as defined in IAS 36.6 must be determined. If the 
recoverable amount is less than the carrying amount, the difference is immediately recognised as an 
impairment loss in profit or loss. 
Non-financial assets other than goodwill are amortised through profit or loss subject to the condi-
tions set out in IAS 36.110 and the carrying amounts and limits set out in IAS 36.117 and 
IAS 36.122. 
4.10 Financial instruments - initial recognition and subsequent measurement 
The classification, measurement and impairment of financial instruments and the derecognition are 
carried out in accordance with the provisions of IFRS 9. A financial instrument is a contract that gives 
rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity instrument of another entity. 
I) Financial assets 
Initial recognition and measurement 
With the exception of trade receivables, the Group measures financial assets at fair value on initial 
recognition. 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 70 
 
 
 
Trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component are measured at the trans-
action price determined in accordance with IFRS 15. 
A regular way purchase or sale of financial assets is measured on the trade date, i.e. the date on 
which the Group entered into the obligation to purchase or sell the asset. 
On initial recognition, financial assets must be classified in accordance with the criteria of IFRS 9.4.1 
for the purposes of subsequent measurement. Further information on the classification criteria and 
subsequent measurement is presented below. 
Subsequent measurement 
Financial assets are classified into four categories for subsequent measurement: 
• 
financial assets at amortised cost (debt instruments) 
• 
financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income with reclassification of cu-
mulative gains and losses (debt instruments) 
• 
financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income without reclassification of 
cumulative gains and losses on derecognition (equity instruments) 
• 
financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 
Financial assets at amortised cost (debt instruments) 
The Group measures financial assets at amortised cost if the following two conditions are met 
• 
the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold financial assets 
in order to collect contractual cash flows, and 
• 
the contractual cash flows from the financial assets represent solely payments of principal 
and interest on the principal amount outstanding. 
Financial assets measured at amortised cost are measured in subsequent periods using the effective 
interest method and are tested for impairment. Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss when 
the asset is derecognised, modified or impaired. 
The Group's financial assets measured at amortised cost mainly include trade receivables. 
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income (debt instruments) 
The Group measures debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income if the fol-
lowing two conditions are met: 
 
the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is both to collect the con-
tractual cash flows and to sell financial assets, and 
 
the contractual cash flows from the financial assets represent solely payments of principal and 
interest on the principal amount outstanding. 
In the case of debt instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, interest 
income, remeasurements of currency translation gains and losses and impairment losses or rever-
sals of impairment losses are recognised in the income statement and calculated in the same way 
as for financial assets measured at amortised cost. 
The remaining changes in fair value are recognised in other comprehensive income. On derecogni-
tion, the cumulative gain or loss from changes in fair value recognised in other comprehensive in-
come is reclassified to the income statement. 
The Group's debt instruments recognised at fair value through other comprehensive income include 
listed bonds reported under current securities. 
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income (equity instruments) 
On initial recognition, the Group can irrevocably elect to classify its equity instruments as equity 
instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income if they fulfil the definition 
of equity under IAS 32 and are not held for trading. Classification is made individually for each in-
strument. 
Gains and losses from these financial assets are never reclassified to the income statement. Divi-
dends are recognised in the income statement as other income if the legal claim to payment exists. 
Equity instruments recognised at fair value through other comprehensive income are not tested for 
impairment.  
The Group has decided to categorise all of its listed equity instruments in this category. 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 71 
 
 
 
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 
In accordance with IFRS 9.4.1.4, the group of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 
includes:  
• 
financial assets "held for trading" as defined by IFRS 9, including derivatives not designated 
as hedging instruments, 
• 
financial assets that are initially recognised at fair value through profit or loss, or 
• 
financial assets that are required to be measured at fair value. 
Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss are recognised in the statement of 
financial position at fair value, with changes in fair value recognised on a net basis in the income 
statement. This category includes derivative financial instruments, listed equity instruments held for 
trading and financial assets that do not meet the requirements described above for measurement at 
amortised cost or at fair value through other comprehensive income. 
Derecognition 
A financial asset is mainly derecognised if, in accordance with IFRS 9.3.2, the contractual rights to 
receive cash flows from the financial asset have either expired or have been transferred. In the event 
of a transfer, the associated transfer of significant risks and rewards or the transfer of control leads 
to the derecognition of the asset. 
Impairment of financial assets 
The Group recognises an allowance for expected credit losses in accordance with IFRS 9.5.5.1 (ECL) 
for all debt instruments that are not measured at fair value through profit or loss. 
The measurement period of the expected credit loss is generally dependent on a significant increase 
in the default risk since initial recognition of the financial instrument. It is based on the expected 
12-month credit loss if there is no significant increase in the default risk and on the remaining term 
(total term ECL) if there is a significant increase. 
In the case of trade receivables and contract assets, the Group applies the accounting option of 
generally recognising risk provisions based on the total lifetime ECL without examining changes in 
risk. The Group has created an impairment matrix based on its previous experience with credit 
losses, which is adjusted for forward-looking factors if specific forward-looking factors can be de-
termined with reasonable effort for the borrower and the economic conditions. 
The Group assumes that a financial asset is in default if contractual payments are 90 days overdue 
and a subsequent detailed review of the debtor does not lead to any other findings. In addition, in 
certain cases, it may assume that a financial asset is in default if internal or external information 
indicates that it is unlikely that the Group will receive the outstanding contractual amounts in full 
before all of the credit collateral it holds is taken into account. A financial asset is written down if 
there is no reasonable expectation that the contractual cash flows will be realised. 
II) Financial liabilities 
Initial recognition and measurement 
Financial liabilities are classified on initial recognition as financial liabilities at fair value through 
profit or loss, as loans, as liabilities or as derivatives that are designated as hedging instruments and 
are effective as such. 
All financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value, less directly attributable transaction costs 
in the case of loans and liabilities. 
The Group's financial liabilities include trade payables, contract liabilities, other liabilities and loans, 
including overdrafts. 
Subsequent measurement 
The subsequent measurement of financial liabilities depends on their classification as follows: 
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 
In accordance with IFRS 9.4.2.1 and IFRS 9.4.2.2, financial liabilities at fair value through profit or 
loss include financial liabilities "held for trading" as defined in IFRS 9 as well as financial liabilities 
classified as at fair value through profit or loss upon initial recognition. 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 72 
 
 
 
This category also includes derivative financial instruments entered into by the Group that are not 
designated as hedging instruments in hedging relationships in accordance with IFRS 9 and are ef-
fective as such. 
Gains or losses from financial liabilities held for trading are recognised in profit or loss. 
The Group has no financial liabilities classified as at fair value through profit or loss. 
Loans and liabilities 
After initial recognition, these financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method. Fees paid between the contracting parties as well as transaction costs, premiums 
and discounts are included in the calculation of the effective interest rate. Gains and losses are rec-
ognised in profit or loss when the liabilities are derecognised and as finance costs as part of the 
amortisation using the effective interest method.  
Derecognition 
A financial liability is derecognised in accordance with IFRS 9.3.3 when the underlying obligation is 
discharged, cancelled or expired. If an existing financial liability is replaced by another financial lia-
bility from the same lender with substantially different contractual terms, or if the terms of an exist-
ing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition 
of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability. The difference between the respective 
carrying amounts is recognised in profit or loss. 
III) Offsetting financial instruments 
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the consolidated statement 
of financial position if there is a currently enforceable legal right to set off the recognised amounts 
and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simul-
taneously. 
4.11 Derivative financial instruments 
The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as commodity swaps or interest rate swaps to 
a small extent to hedge against commodity price and interest rate risks from existing and future 
underlying transactions and recognises them in accordance with IFRS 9. These derivative financial 
instruments are generally recognised or remeasured at fair value at the time the contract is con-
cluded and in subsequent periods. Derivative financial instruments are recognised as financial as-
sets if their fair value is positive and as financial liabilities if it is negative. These derivative financial 
instruments are not designated as hedging relationships, but are classified as held for trading. 
4.12 Inventories 
Inventories are accounted for in accordance with IAS 2 and recognised at the lower of cost and net 
realisable value (less necessary selling costs), taking into account their planned use. Raw materials, 
consumables and supplies as well as purchased goods are recognised at the lower of cost using the 
average price method or market price on the balance sheet date. In addition to the cost of production 
materials and production wages, the production costs of work in progress and finished goods also 
include pro rata material and production overheads, assuming normal capacity utilisation. Appropri-
ate write-downs were recognised for inventory risks arising from the storage period and reduced 
usability. 
4.13 Contract assets and contract liabilities 
Contract assets and contract liabilities are recognised in accordance with IFRS 15. If revenue is rec-
ognised due to the fulfilment of a contractual performance obligation before the conditions for in-
voicing have been met or the customer has made a payment, the corresponding claim is recognised 
as a contract asset. 
If payments are made by customers or receivables from a customer are contractually due before a 
contractual performance obligation has been fulfilled and revenue has thus been realised, the future 
revenue must be measured in accordance with IFRS 15 and recognised as a contract liability. The 
contract liabilities are then added to revenue in accordance with the fulfilment of the contractual 
performance obligations. 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 73 
 
 
 
If the contract asset value of a customer order exceeds the advance payments received on it, it is 
recognised as an asset under contract assets. In the opposite case, it is recognised separately on 
the liabilities side under contract liabilities. 
If it is probable that the production costs of construction contracts will exceed the recoverable 
amount, the expected losses are recognised immediately as an expense. In such cases, an impair-
ment loss is recognised up to the amount of the respective contract asset or - if the contract asset 
is exceeded - a provision for onerous contracts is recognised on the liabilities side under current 
provisions in accordance with IAS 37. This is recognised on a case-by-case basis at the amount re-
quired to fulfil the current obligation from the customer contract. 
Revenue in the Energy Grids segment 
In accordance with the provisions of IFRS 15, revenue from the Energy Grids segment is generally 
recognised over time, as the projects are built on land owned by customers and they therefore always 
have control over the assets created or improved. Realisation takes place on the basis of individual 
contracts. The transaction price is allocated to separate performance obligations on the basis of 
labour costing. The contract amount agreed with the customer is used to determine the transaction 
price of projects in the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group.  
Revenue from these projects is recognised over time using the output-oriented method based on the 
work already performed. The work performed and the corresponding revenue are determined at the 
level of the individual items in accordance with the work calculation. Due to unforeseen deviations 
from the planned costs, the best indicator is the direct derivation of the performance progress from 
the work actually performed. The project team is required to carry out the direct determination of 
performance on a monthly basis.  
Inventories that have not yet been utilised but are already present in the projects are reported sep-
arately under inventories. Partial services already invoiced are recognised as trade receivables. 
Supplementary work in connection with these orders are services that cannot be offset on the basis 
of existing contractual agreements, but for which agreement must still be reached with the client as 
to whether they can be offset or recognised. While the costs are recognised in profit or loss as soon 
as they are incurred, revenue from supplementary work is generally only recognised after the client's 
written acknowledgement has been received or upon payment of the supplementary work if payment 
is received before the written acknowledgement. 
Revenue in the area of Energy Transformation 
The consideration for revenue in the Energy Transformation segment, which is realised over time on 
the basis of the services already rendered as at the reporting date, is recognised under contract 
assets. The contract asset represents the Group's claim.  
Revenue is recognised over time if there is no alternative use due to a contractual agreement and 
there is a right to remuneration including a profit margin on the service provided. The comments on 
revenue in the Energy Grids segment apply accordingly. 
4.14 Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents recognised in the statement of financial position comprise cash in hand, 
bank balances and short-term deposits with an original term of less than three months. Cash and 
cash equivalents are measured at amortised cost. 
Cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated statement of cash flows are recognised in accordance 
with the above definition. 
4.15 Provisions 
In accordance with IAS 37, provisions are recognised for current obligations arising from a past event 
that will probably lead to an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits in the future in the 
amount of the reliably estimable expense. 
Provisions that do not lead to an outflow of resources in the following year are recognised at their 
settlement amount discounted to the balance sheet date. The settlement amount also includes ex-
pected cost increases. Provisions are not offset against rights of recourse. If the Group expects at 
least a partial reimbursement for a provision recognised as a liability, the reimbursement is recog-
nised as a separate asset if the inflow of the reimbursement is virtually certain.  
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 74 
 
 
 
Provisions with the liability character are recognised for obligations for which an exchange of ser-
vices has taken place and the amount of the consideration is reasonably certain. Provisions with the 
liability character are recognised under liabilities. 
4.16 Pensions and other post-employment benefits 
Pension obligations are recognised in accordance with IAS 19. Payments for defined contribution 
plans are recognised as an expense. In the case of defined benefit plans, the obligation is recognised 
as a pension provision in the statement of financial position. The pension commitments are regarded 
as defined benefit plans and are therefore actuarially measured using the projected unit credit 
method. 
The actuarial gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income. The interest expense 
resulting from the compounding of pensions is recognised in the financial result. 
4.17 Revenue realisation 
Revenue is recognised at the amount that corresponds to the consideration that the company ex-
pects to receive in exchange for the promised goods or services when they are transferred to the 
customer. Revenue is recognised when the customer obtains control of the goods or services.  
In the case of projects with variable remuneration, either the expected value or the most probable 
value is recognised, depending on the specific contractual arrangement. In principle, both estima-
tion methods can be used in a single contract. In addition, the amount determined in this way is 
reduced by a risk-adjusted discount in order to avoid a significant reversal of the cumulative revenue 
already recognised when the uncertainty is resolved. 
Sale of goods and products, provision of services 
The customer generally obtains control upon delivery of the goods and products or upon final ac-
ceptance by the customer. Revenue from service transactions is only recognised when it is suffi-
ciently probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the customer. 
This occurs in the accounting period in which the respective services are rendered, whereby the 
customer obtains control over the service. 
Revenue from contracts with customers (Energy Grids) 
Revenue from contracts with customers is generally recognised over time in accordance with the 
provisions of IFRS 15. Revenue is recognised over time using the output-oriented method on the 
basis of the service already provided as at the reporting date. 
For further details, please refer to the explanations on contract assets.  
Revenue from contracts carried out in joint ventures is recognised over time in accordance with the 
work actually performed as at the reporting date. Impending losses from the further course of the 
project are recognised through corresponding write-downs.  
Revenue from Energy Transformation projects 
Revenue in the Energy Transformation segment is recognised over time on the basis of the work 
already performed as at the reporting date if there is no alternative use for the FRIEDRICH VORWERK 
Group due to a contractual agreement and the contractual agreement provides for a remuneration 
claim including a profit margin on the work already performed. 
Interest income 
Interest income is recognised when the interest has accrued (using the effective interest rate, i.e. 
the rate that discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial in-
strument to the net carrying amount of the financial asset). 
Dividends 
Income is recognised when the legal claim to payment arises. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 75 
 
 
 
4.18 Taxes 
a) Current income taxes 
Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount ex-
pected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities. The calculation is based on the tax 
rates and tax laws applicable on the balance sheet date. 
b) Deferred taxes 
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised in accordance with IAS 12 for all taxable temporary differ-
ences, with the exception of the deferred tax liability from the initial recognition of goodwill. 
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences and unused tax loss car-
ryforwards to the extent that it is probable that taxable income will be available against which the 
deductible temporary differences and unused tax loss carryforwards can be utilised. 
Investment-dependent tax credits are recognised in analogous application of the provisions of 
IAS 12. They are not offset against the corresponding investment. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are netted for individual companies if they are attributable to fu-
ture charges or reductions by the same taxpayer vis-à-vis the same tax authority. 
Deferred taxes are measured using tax rates that fulfil the requirements of IAS 12.47 et seq. They 
are based on the tax rates applicable or announced on the reporting date and are calculated using 
the tax rates expected to apply when the liability is settled or the asset is realised. Deferred taxes 
are recognised as tax income or expense in the statement of comprehensive income and, if they 
relate to items recognised directly in equity, are also recognised directly in equity. 
4.19 Contingent liabilities and contingent assets 
Contingent liabilities are disclosed separately in the notes unless the possibility of an outflow of 
resources embodying economic benefits is remote. 
In the context of business combinations, contingent liabilities are recognised in accordance with 
IFRS 3.23 if the fair value can be reliably determined. 
Contingent assets are not recognised in the financial statements. However, they are disclosed in the 
notes if the inflow of economic benefits is probable. 
4.20 Classification of expenses 
The expenses recognised in the income statement are classified by type of expense using the nature 
of expense method. 
Other taxes comprise taxes other than income taxes and are recognised separately under "Other 
taxes". 
4.21 Government grants 
Government grants related to income are recognised as profit or loss in the periods in which the 
corresponding expenses are recognised and there is reasonable assurance that the conditions at-
tached to the grants will be met. 
If the grants offset future expenses, the grants received are recognised as deferred income under 
liabilities in the statement of financial position. 
4.22 Measurement of fair value 
The input factors used to determine the fair value are categorised in the so-called "fair value hierar-
chy" of IFRS 13.72 et seq., whereby the prices quoted in active markets for identical assets or lia-
bilities (unadjusted) (level 1 input factors) are given the highest priority for application, while unob-
servable input factors are given the lowest priority (level 3 input factors). 
If the inputs used to determine the fair value of an asset or liability can be categorised into different 
levels of the fair value hierarchy, the fair value measurement is allocated in its entirety to the level 
of the fair value hierarchy that corresponds to the lowest level input that is significant to the meas-
urement as a whole. 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 76 
 
 
 
Fair value disclosures are not made if the carrying amounts of the financial assets and liabilities that 
are not measured at fair value essentially correspond to the fair values. 
 
5. Significant judgements, estimates and assumptions 
For the preparation of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS, estimates and 
assumptions must be made in individual cases. These have an impact on the amounts of assets, 
liabilities and financial obligations recognised as at the balance sheet date and on the recognition of 
income and expenses. The actual amounts may differ from these estimates. 
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the 
reporting date that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts 
of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below. 
a) Impairment of non-financial assets 
The Group determines at each balance sheet date whether there are any indications of impairment 
of non-financial assets. Non-financial assets are tested for impairment if there are indications that 
the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount. To estimate the value in use, management 
assesses the expected future cash flows of the asset or cash-generating unit and selects an appro-
priate discount rate to determine the present value of these cash flows. 
b) Pensions and other post-employment benefits 
The expense from defined benefit post-employment plans is determined on the basis of actuarial 
calculations. The actuarial valuation is based on assumptions regarding discount rates, future wage 
and salary increases, mortality and future pension increases. In line with the long-term nature of 
these plans, such estimates are subject to significant uncertainties. 
c) Provisions 
Other provisions are recognised and measured on the basis of an estimate of the probability of a 
future outflow of resources and on the basis of past experience and the circumstances known at the 
balance sheet date. The actual obligation may differ from the amounts recognised as provisions. 
d) Deferred tax assets 
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all unused tax loss carryforwards and temporary differences 
to the extent that it is probable that taxable income will be available against which the loss carryfor-
wards can actually be utilised. In determining the amount of deferred tax assets, management judge-
ment is required with regard to the expected timing and amount of future taxable income and future 
tax planning strategies. 
e) Revenue from contracts with customers 
The companies of the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group conduct a large part of their business as con-
struction contracts over time, for which revenue is recognised according to the stage of completion 
and the percentage of completion. This method requires an estimate of the percentage of comple-
tion. Depending on the method used to determine the stage of completion, the main estimates in-
clude the work already performed, the total contract costs, the costs to be incurred until completion, 
the total contract revenue, the contract risks and other judgements. The estimates are continuously 
reviewed by the company's management and adjusted if necessary. Particularly in the case of tech-
nically complex and demanding projects, there is a risk that the estimate of total costs may differ 
significantly from the actual costs incurred or the estimate of the percentage of completion.  
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 77 
 
 
 
II. Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 
1. Non-current assets 
The development of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment is shown in the following statement of changes in non-current assets. 
1.1 Statement of changes in non-current assets of the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group as at 31 December 2025 
 
Cost 
as at 
1 Jan
Additions
Business 
acquisi-
tions
Reclassi-
fication
Dispos-
als
Exchange 
rate
diff.
Cost
as at
31 Dec
Acc. de-
precia-
tion
 as at 
1 Jan
Additions
Dispos-
als
Ex-
change 
rate
diff.
Acc. de-
precia-
tion 
as at 
31 Dec
Net books 
value 
as at 
1 Jan
Net books 
value 
as at 
31 Dec
31 Dec 2025
€k
€k
€k
€k
€k
€k
€k
€k
€k
€k
€k
€k
€k
€k
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I.
Intangible assets
1.
Concessions, industrial 
property rights and similar 
rights 
2,910
285
0
0
0
0
3,195
1,883
313
0
0
2,196
1,028
999
2.
Goodwill
4,450
0
0
0
0
0
4,450
0
0
0
0
0
4,450
4,450
7,360
285
0
0
0
0
7,645
1,883
313
0
0
2,196
5,477
5,449
II.
Property, plant and equipment
1.
Land and buildings including 
buildings on third-party land 
57,741
3,842
104
3,289
454
5
64,526
6,820
2,987
401
1
9,407
50,920
55,119
2.
Technical equipment 
and machinery 
72,644
32,135
757
0
3,413
7
102,131
32,916
13,329
3,146
3
43,102
39,728
59,029
3.
Other equipment, operating 
and office equipment 
50,005
18,066
537
350
2,598
2
66,362
17,033
9,927
2,275
1
24,685
32,973
41,677
4.
Advance payments and as-
sets under construction 
4,775
1,871
0
-3,639
1,049
0
1,958
0
0
0
0
0
4,775
1,959
185,165
55,914
1,398
0
7,514
15
234,977
56,769
26,243
5,822
4
77,194
128,397
157,784
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total
192,525
56,199
1,398
0
7,514
15
242,622
58,652
26,556
5,822
4
79,390
133,874
163,233
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 78 
 
 
 
1.2 Statement of changes in non-current assets of the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group as at 31 December 2024 
 
 
Cost
as at
 1 Jan
Additions
Busi-
ness ac-
quisi-
tions
Reclassi-
fication
Disposals
Exchange 
rate
diff.
Cost
as at
 31 Dec
Acc. de-
precia-
tion
as at
 1 Jan
Additions
Disposals
Exchange 
rate
diff.
Acc. de-
precia-
tion 
as at 
31 Dec
Net book 
value
as at
 1 Jan
Net book 
value
as at
 31 Dec
31 Dec 2024
€k
€k
€k
€k
€k
€k
€k
€k
€k
€k
€k
€k
€k
€k
I.
Intangible assets
1.
Concessions, industrial
property rights and similar 
rights 
2,725
185
0
0
0
0
2,910
1,579
304
0
0
1,883
1,147
1,028
2.
Goodwill
4,276
0
173
0
0
0
4,450
0
0
0
0
0
4,276
4,450
7,002
185
173
0
0
0
7,360
1,579
304
0
0
1,883
5,423
5,477
II.
Property, plant and equipment
1.
Land and buildings including 
buildings on third-party land
41,722
5,974
0
12,284
2,245
6
57,741
4,964
2,438
582
1
6,820
36,758
50,920
2.
Technical equipment 
and machinery 
63,848
15,256
9
243
6,719
8
72,644
27,695
11,490
6,271
2
32,916
36,154
39,728
3.
Other equipment, operating 
and office equipment 
37,248
16,863
60
386
4,554
3
50,005
13,938
7,016
3,922
1
17,033
23,310
32,973
4.
Advance payments and as-
sets under construction 
14,118
3,759
0
-12,912
190
0
4,775
0
0
0
0
0
14,118
4,775
156,936
41,852
69
0
13,708
17
185,165
46,597
20,944
10,775
4
56,769
110,340
128,397
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total
163,938
42,037
242
0
13,708
17
192,525
48,175
21,248
10,775
4
58,652
115,763
133,874
  
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 79 
 
 
 
2. Goodwill 
The carrying amount of goodwill is €4,450 thousand (previous year: €4,450 thousand). 
Goodwill is subject to an annual impairment test. Goodwill acquired as part of business combinations 
is allocated to cash-generating units (CGUs). The allocation and parameters used for the impairment 
test are shown in the table below. 
The impairment test confirmed the recoverability of the capitalised goodwill. 
Estimation uncertainties in the impairment test 
The recoverable amount of the cash-generating units is determined on the basis of a value-in-use 
calculation using cash flow forecasts based on medium-term planning approved by the management 
of the respective CGU for a period of five years. Following the medium-term planning, the calculation 
is transferred to perpetuity, taking into account an unchanged sustainable growth rate of 1.0%. Cur-
rent and future probabilities, the expected economic development and other circumstances are 
taken into account when determining the budget figures. The forecast cash flows are discounted 
using a pre-tax discount rate (WACC), the values and underlying parameters of which are shown in 
the following table. 
31 Dec 2025 
Goodwill
Market risk 
premium
Risk-free 
interest rate
WACC before 
taxes
Revenue
growth rate*
CGU
€k
in %
in %
in %
in %
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gottfried Puhlmann
3,812
6.0
3.3
10.4
10.0
(31 Dec 2024)
3,812
7.5
2.5
8.7
3.7
Korupp
314
6.0
3.3
11.2
2.5
(31 Dec 2024)
314
7.5
2.5
10.0
0.5
Hempel
151
6.0
3.3
11.0
16.4
(31 Dec 2024)
151
7.5
2.5
9.6
-0.5
Pipeline- und Anlagen-
service 
(formerly: Seyde und Co-
burg)** 
173
6.0
3.3
11.5
-0.9
(31 Dec 2024)
173
7.5
2.5
9.6
6.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
* Planned revenue growth including changes in finished goods and work in progress (operating performance), average of the next five    
   years 
** Seyde und Coburg Kathodischer Korrosionsschutz GmbH was merged into Vorwerk Pipeline- und Anlagenservice GmbH in the  
    reporting period 
 
Estimation uncertainties in the impairment test 
The assumptions underlying the calculation of the value in use of the CGU are subject to the greatest 
estimation uncertainties with regard to 
- 
EBITDA margins 
- 
discount rates 
- 
Revenue growth rates 
EBITDA margins: The EBITDA margins are based on the medium-term planning of the respective 
cash-generating unit. A decrease in the EBITDA margin of 0.5 percentage points would not lead to 
an impairment for any CGU or CGU Group.  
Discount rates: The discount rates represent the market estimates with regard to the specific risks 
attributable to the cash-generating units in each case; the interest effect and the specific risks of the 
assets for which the estimated future cash flows have not been adjusted are taken into account. The 
calculation of the discount rate takes into account the specific circumstances of the Group. To de-
termine a pre-tax discount rate, the discount rate is adjusted for the corresponding amount and tim-
ing of taxable cash flows. An increase in the pre-tax discount rate of 0.5 percentage points would 
not lead to an impairment for any CGU or CGU Group. 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 80 
 
 
 
Revenue growth rates: The forecast revenue trends are based on past experience and growth as-
sumptions for the target markets of the respective CGUs. The Group recognises that potential new 
competitors or a changed market environment could have a significant impact on the assumptions 
for revenue development. Such a development could lead to a different reasonably possible devel-
opment for the cash-generating units. A deviation from the forecast revenue development of one 
percentage point would not lead to an impairment for any CGU or CGU Group. 
 
3. Intangible assets 
With regard to the development of intangible assets, please refer to the presentation in the state-
ment of changes in non-current assets. 
 
4. Property, plant and equipment 
With regard to the development of property, plant and equipment, we refer to the presentation in the 
statement of changes in non-current assets. No borrowing costs were capitalised for qualifying as-
sets in either the reporting year or the previous year.  
The development costs capitalised by the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group in the financial year amount 
to €0 thousand (previous year: €1,038 thousand). 
The following table provides an overview of the capitalised right-of-use assets per asset class as at 
31 December 2025  
 
31 Dec 2025
31 Dec 2024
€k
€k
Land and buildings
1,526
1,576
Technical equipment and machinery
569
1,139
Other equipment, operating and office equipment
1,176
12
 
 
 
Total
3,270
2,727
 
The right-of-use assets presented separately here are also included in the statement of changes in 
non-current assets in section II.1. Additions to right-of-use assets in the 2025 financial year totalled 
€3,498 thousand (previous year: €1,865 thousand), of which €175 thousand (previous 
year: €0 thousand) was attributable to business combinations. 
 
5. Financial assets 
 
31 Dec 2025
31 Dec 2024
€k
€k
 
 
 
Equity investments
27,626
9,310
Long-term securities
5,987
1,982
 
 
 
Carrying amount as at 31 Dec
33,613
11,293
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 81 
 
 
 
The development of financial assets is shown in the following tables 
31 Dec 2025
31 Dec 2024
€k
€k
 
 
 
Carrying amount as at 1 Jan
1,982
2,068
Additions in the period
3,931
0
Disposals in the period
0
-291
Revaluation
74
206
 
 
 
Carrying amount as at 31 Dec
5,987
1,982
0
0
31 Dec 2025
31 Dec 2024
€k
€k
 
 
 
Carrying amount as at 1 Jan
9,310
10,591
Pro rata annual results
21,189
5,903
Distributions
-2,873
-7,183
 
0
0
Carrying amount as at 31 Dec
27,626
9,310
 
Information on securities 
The securities were only sold in the previous year as part of active portfolio management. The fair 
value of the securities sold in the previous year was €359.3 thousand at the time of derecognition. 
The cumulative gain on disposal in the previous year totalled €68.1 thousand. 
 
Disclosures on ARGEs 
In the Group, ARGEs are classified as joint ventures and their results are recognised in the result 
from equity investments. For the 2025 financial year, the following table contains the ten largest 
joint ventures in terms of revenue in 2025 
 
Shareholding in %
 
 
(EWA) ARGE EWA
50.00%
(BAL) Dach-ARGE Baltrum Büsum
33.33%
(SE2) ARGE SEL 02
50.00%
(GH2) ARGE Get H2 Lingen
10.00%
(SE3) ARGE SEL 03
50.00%
(PFA) ARGE Kabeltrasse SüdLink PFA3
45.00%
(VDS) Dach-ARGE VDS Achim West GU Lot 1
19.25%
(HEP) ARGE OGE HEp
33.30%
(BRU) ARGE LNG Brunsbüttel
50.00%
(BAU) ARGE Bauausführung ETL 182
40.00%
 
The financial information on these ARGEs for the 2025 financial year is presented at 100%. 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 82 
 
 
 
Revenue
Non-current 
assets
Current 
assets
thereof
cash funds
Non-current 
liabilities
Current 
liabilities
€k
€k
€k
€k
€k
€k
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(EWA)
81,541
723
134,391
3,388
0
125,128
(BAL)
81,039
429
178,082
1,556
0
175,431
(SE2)
48,181
0
64,278
10,778
0
59,383
(GH2)
45,617
0
78,576
0
0
78,576
(SE3)
29,610
0
22,797
8,383
0
19,387
(PFA)
29,242
109
44,011
9,780
0
41,661
(VDS)
28,710
0
15,738
1,337
0
15,741
(HEP)
25,791
0
40,418
3,183
0
33,607
(BRU)
24,269
0
403,167
7,058
0
383,825
(BAU)
15,543
162
46,792
28,652
0
44,985
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Information on cumulative losses from equity investments 
In the financial year, all pro rata losses from equity investments were recognised in profit or loss. 
 
 
Disclosures on securities held as current assets 
The development of securities classified as current assets is shown in the following table 
31 Dec 2025
31 Dec 2024
€k
€k
Carrying amount as at 1 Jan
0
0
Additions in the period
7,588
0
Disposals for the period
0
0
Valuation using the effective interest method*
11
0
Valuation at market value - foreign exchange rate effect
-6
0
Valuation at market value - bond price
-17
0
 
 
 
Carrying amount as at 31 Dec
7,576
0
 * excluding accrued interest (recognised as other financial assets in the statement of financial position). With regard to the total interest   
    resulting from the effective interest method, please refer to section III. 7 Financial income. 
  
Financial assets recognised at fair value through other comprehensive income 
The financial assets of the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group recognised at fair value through other com-
prehensive income include securities (shares and bonds). The FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group has des-
ignated the securities as at fair value through other comprehensive income because they are not 
acquired for the purpose of trading. 
Of the securities recognised at fair value through other comprehensive income in the amount of 
€13,564 thousand (previous year: €1,982 thousand), €5,987 thousand (previous year: €1,982 thou-
sand) are reported under non-current assets and €7,576 thousand (previous year: €0 thousand) un-
der current assets. The Group's debt instruments recognised at fair value through other comprehen-
sive income consist exclusively of listed bonds, which the management considers to be an invest-
ment with a low credit risk. Impairment losses of €14 thousand (previous year: €0 thousand) were 
recognised for expected credit losses from bonds. 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 83 
 
 
 
 
Derivative financial instruments 
The positive market value of derivatives (interest rate swaps, commodity swaps) is recognised as a 
separate item (derivative financial instruments) under "Financial assets" from the 2025 financial 
year. The previous year's figure was also presented accordingly. In the annual report for 2024, this 
value was reported under "Other current assets". 
6. Inventories 
 
31 Dec 2025
31 Dec 2024
€k
€k
 
 
 
Raw materials and supplies
8,770
6,715
Work in progress
127
164
Advance payments
4,653
168
 
 
 
Carrying amount as at 31 Dec
13,550
7,047
 
Impairment losses totalling €20 thousand (previous year: €3 thousand) were recognised on inven-
tories during the reporting period. 
 
7. Trade receivables 
31 Dec 2025
31 Dec 2024
€k
€k
 
 
 
Trade receivables
15,092
19,576
Receivables from ARGEs
11,839
23,448
less individual valuation adjustments
-963
-2,486
less expected credit loss
-37
-63
 
 
 
Carrying amount as at 31 Dec
25,931
40,475
 
The total amount of trade receivables is due within one year. Trade receivables are individually im-
paired as required. Indicators for value adjustments are non-receipt of payments and information 
about changes in the creditworthiness of customers. There is no significant concentration of credit 
risk due to the breadth of the customer base. The individual valuation adjustments mainly include 
reporting date-related devaluation effects from the valuation of the joint ventures. 
 
8. Contract assets and contract liabilities 
Contract assets comprise the remuneration claims from contracts with customers and plant con-
struction projects for services already rendered on the reporting date. If the advance payments re-
ceived on these exceed the remuneration claim, they are recognised under contract liabilities. 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 84 
 
 
 
31 Dec 2025
31 Dec 2024
€k
€k
 
 
 
Gross contract assets
839,947
559,347
advance payments received thereon
-785,917
-505,467
Contract assets
54,029
53,880
Contract liabilities (incl. advance payments)
84,084
80,750
 
 
 
 
No costs of contract initiation or contract fulfilment were capitalised as separate assets in the finan-
cial year (previous year: none).  
Revenue, which was included in the balance of contract liabilities at the beginning of the period, 
totalled €67,010 thousand in the 2025 financial year (previous year: €18,654 thousand). 
 
9. Other current assets 
Other current assets break down as follows:  
 
31 Dec 2025
31 Dec 2024
€k
€k
 
 
0
Tax receivables
1,754
5,183
Receivables from personnel
1,224
1,253
Prepaid expenses
1,616
1,426
Other current assets
1,274
903
 
 
0
Carrying amount as at 31 Dec
5,869
8,765
 
Tax receivables include corporation and trade tax refunds of €1,403 thousand (previous 
year: €4,769 thousand) and input tax refund claims of €351 thousand (previous year: €413 thou-
sand). Receivables from staff mainly comprise employee loans. 
 
10. Cash in hand, bank balances 
The composition of cash and cash equivalents and the reconciliation to liquidity reserve are shown 
in the following overview 
31 Dec 2025
31 Dec 2024
€k
€k
 
 
 
Composition of the cash and cash equivalents
Cash in hand
22
9
Bank balances
266,016
174,639
 
 
 
Reconciliation as at 31 Dec
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period
266,038
174,647
Securities and accrued interest
13,643
1,982
 
 
 
Cash and cash equivalents as at 31 Dec
279,682
176,630
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 85 
 
 
 
11. Equity 
With regard to the development of equity, please refer to the separate appendix "Consolidated state-
ment of changes in equity" to these notes. 
 
11.1 Issued capital 
As at 31 December 2025, the issued capital of Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE amounted to 
€20,000 thousand (previous year: €20,000 thousand). It is divided into 20,000,000 no-par value 
bearer shares with a notional value of €1.00 per share of issued capital. 
Authorised capital and conditional capital 
By resolution of the Annual General Meeting on 3 June 2024, the Management Board was authorised, 
with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to increase the share capital by up to €10,000,000.00 
by issuing new no-par value bearer shares on one or more occasions until 2 June 2029 (Authorised 
Capital 2024). The Management Board is authorised, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to 
exclude shareholders' subscription rights in certain cases. The Authorised Capital 2021/I was can-
celled with effect from the date of entry of the new Authorised Capital 2024 in the commercial reg-
ister. 
The Authorised Capital 2024 amounts to €10,000,000.00 as at 31 December 2025. 
By resolution of the Annual General Meeting on 3 June 2024, the Management Board was authorised 
to issue convertible bonds and/or bonds with warrants with a total nominal value of up to 
€200,000,000.00 on one or more occasions until 2 June 2029 with the approval of the Supervisory 
Board and to grant the creditors of these bonds conversion rights to new no-par value bearer shares 
of Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE with a proportionate share of the share capital of up to a total of 
€10,000,000.00 (Contingent Capital 2024). The share capital is conditionally increased by up to 
€10,000,000.00. The conditional capital increase is only to be carried out to the extent that the 
creditors of convertible bonds or bonds with warrants issued by the company on the basis of the 
authorisation resolution of the Annual General Meeting on 3 June 2024 until 2 June 2029 have ex-
ercised their conversion rights and the company has not fulfilled the conversion claim in another 
way, or to the extent that these creditors are subject to a conversion obligation. At the same time, 
Conditional Capital 2021/I in the amount of €9,000,000.00, to which no instruments are outstand-
ing, was cancelled. 
The Conditional Capital 2024 amounts to €10,000,000.00 as at 31 December 2025.  
Acquisition of treasury shares 
The Annual General Meeting on 3 June 2024 authorised the company to acquire and sell treasury 
shares in the period up to 2 June 2029, subject to the principle of equal treatment (Section 53a 
AktG), up to an amount of 10% of the share capital at the time of this authorisation. The authorisation 
may be exercised in full or in partial amounts, on one or more occasions. The acquisition may also 
be carried out by Group companies dependent on the company or for its account by third parties. 
The authorisation to acquire and use treasury shares granted by the company's Annual General 
Meeting on 10 February 2021 was revoked when the aforementioned authorisation came into effect. 
Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE did not make use of this authorisation in the year under review. 
Disclosures pursuant to Section 160 (1) No. 8 AktG: 
In accordance with Section 160 (1) no. 8 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG), the existence 
of a shareholding that has been notified in accordance with Section 20 (1) or (4) AktG or Section 33 
(1) or (2) of the German Securities Trading Act (WpHG) must be disclosed. The content of the notifi-
cation published in accordance with Section 20 (6) AktG or Section 40 (1) WpHG must be stated. In 
the event that the thresholds specified in this provision are reached, exceeded or fallen below of 
several times by a party subject to the notification obligation, the most recent notification that led 
to the thresholds being reached, exceeded or fallen short of shall be listed. All voting rights notifica-
tions received by Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE can be viewed on the company's website 
(https://www.friedrich-vorwerk-group.de/en/investor-relations/corporate-governance/). 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 86 
 
 
 
Declarant 
Registered office
Date of
threshold 
contact
Type of 
threshold 
contact
Notifi-
cation 
thresh-
old
Equity 
investment 
in %*
 
DWS Investment GmbH 
Frankfurt (Main), 
Germany 
24 Feb 2026
overrun
3%
3.06%
11 Mar2026
underrun
3%
2.25%
J.P. Morgan Investment 
Management Inc. 
Wilmington, 
Delaware, USA 
10 Jun 2025
underrun
3%
2.91%
24 Oct 2025
overrun
3%
3.08%
JPMorgan Chase Bank, 
National Association 
Columbus, 
Ohio, USA 
10 Jun 2025
underrun
3%
2.91%
24 Oct 2025
overrun
3%
3.08%
JPMorgan Asset 
Management (UK) Limited 
London, 
United Kingdom 
10 Jun 2025
underrun
3%
2.91%
24 Oct 2025
overrun
3%
3.08%
*Shareholding on the date of notification of the last breach of the threshold 
 
11.2 Capital reserve 
The capital reserve remained unchanged at €76,204 thousand as at the balance sheet date (31 De-
cember 2024: €76,204 thousand) 
 
11.3 Retained earnings and other reserves 
Difference in equity from currency translation 
The difference in equity from currency translation is the result of translation using the modified re-
porting date method. 
The difference results from the translation of the income statement items of the subsidiaries that 
have prepared their accounts in foreign currencies at the average exchange rate and the statement 
of financial position items at the closing rate on the one hand and the equity of the respective sub-
sidiaries at the historical exchange rate on the other. As at the balance sheet date, the scope of 
consolidation includes one branch that reports in Polish zloty. 
Reserve for changes in fair value 
The reserve for changes in fair value results from the measurement of financial assets at fair value 
on the balance sheet date. For the statement of comprehensive income, a breakdown is made in 
other comprehensive income according to whether these valuation gains or losses can be reclassi-
fied to the income statement upon realisation. 
Reserve for pensions 
In accordance with IAS 19, actuarial gains/losses (after taking into account the associated deferred 
tax effects) are recognised in the reserve for pensions and in other comprehensive income. 
Generated group equity 
This item contains the profits generated by the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group less the dividends dis-
tributed. In the 2025 financial year, a dividend of €0.30 per dividend-bearing share was paid out, 
which was approved by the Annual General Meeting on 2 June 2025. 
11.4 Non-controlling interests 
Non-controlling interests result from the investment (65%) in 5C-Tech GmbH. 
In accordance with IAS 32, the shares of the non-controlling shareholders of Friedrich Vor-
werk SE & Co. KG are not recognised in equity, but under current and non-current liabilities. 
12. Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 
The pension obligations under defined benefit pension plans relate to Friedrich Vorwerk SE & Co. KG 
and Gottfried Puhlmann GmbH. They comprise claims to a lifelong retirement pension combined with 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 87 
 
 
 
a surviving dependant's pension in the amount of the provision recognised in the financial accounts 
at the end of the month of death. As at 31 December 2025, 96 (31 December 2024: 107) pensioners 
will benefit from the pension plans. The pension agreement is closed, i.e. no further company pen-
sion commitments are agreed for new hires. 
 
31 Dec 2025
31 Dec 2024
€k
€k
 
 
 
Pension provisions at the beginning of the period
2,122
1,990
Utilisation
-107
-114
Additions to provisions (service cost)
20
19
Additions to provisions (interest cost)
66
70
Actuarial gains (-)/losses (+)
-320
157
Pension provisions at the end of the period
1,779
2,122
- Plan assets
0
0
 
 
 
Carrying amount
1,779
2,122
 
The defined benefit pension commitments expose the Group to actuarial risks, in particular increas-
ing life expectancy and interest rate risks. The following actuarial assumptions were used as a basis: 
 
2025
2024
 
 
 
Actuarial interest rate
3.70% - 4.11%
3.14% - 3.20%
Salary trend
0.00%
0.00%
Pension trend
0.00% - 2.00%
0.00% - 2.00%
 
 
 
 
The benefit plans are not funded. The liability corresponds to the obligation (DBO). 
The expenses and income recognised in the income statement are as follows  
 
31 Dec 2025
31 Dec 2024
€k
€k
 
 
 
Additions to provisions (service cost)
-20
-19
Additions to provisions (interest cost)
-66
-70
 
 
 
Total
-85
-89
 
The expected pension payments from the pension plans for 2026 amount to €116 thousand. 
The sensitivity of the total pension obligation to changes in the weighted main assumptions can be 
(at most) as follows 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 88 
 
 
 
Effect on DBO
 
Change in 
assumption 
Increase in 
assumption 
Reduction in 
assumption 
 
 
 
 
Interest rate
0.25%
-2.7%
+2.9%
Pension growth rate
0.25%
+0.3%
-0.3%
Life expectancy
1 year
+3.9%
-3.9%
 
 
 
 
 
When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to actuarial assumptions, the same 
method was used to determine the value of the pension provision in the statement of financial posi-
tion. The sensitivity analysis is based on the change in one assumption, while all other assumptions 
are held constant. It is unlikely that this will occur in reality. Changes in some assumptions may 
correlate. 
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit plans is 11.6 years. 
 
13. Liabilities 
Liabilities have the following maturities: 
 
Up to
1 year
More than 1
and up to
5 years
More than
5 years
Total
31 Dec 2025
€k
€k
€k
€k
 
 
 
0
 
Liabilities to banks
2,203
7,745
3,515
13,463
Trade payables
5,853
0
0
5,853
Provisions with liability character
33,521
0
0
33,521
Other liabilities
46,225
0
0
46,225
Contract liabilities
84,084
0
0
84,084
Lease liabilities
3,181
1,047
104
4,332
Liabilities to non-controlling interests
3,767
0
16,614
20,381
Liabilities from profit participation rights
0
0
10,213
10,213
 
 
 
 
 
As at 31 Dec 2025
178,834
8,792
30,446
218,072
 
 
Up to
1 year
More than 1
and up to
5 years
More than
5 years
Total
31 Dec 2024
€k
€k
€k
€k
 
 
 
 
 
Liabilities to banks
4,534
8,080
5,382
17,996
Trade payables
4,369
0
0
4,369
Provisions with liability character
31,447
0
0
31,447
Other liabilities
31,839
0
0
31,839
Contract liabilities
80,750
0
0
80,750
Lease liabilities
2,192
2,131
54
4,377
Liabilities to non-controlling interests
3,225
0
8,534
11,759
Liabilities from profit participation rights
0
0
10,213
10,213
 
 
 
 
 
As at 31 Dec 2024
158,356
10,211
24,183
192,749
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 89 
 
 
 
 
Liabilities to banks bear interest at both fixed and variable interest rates of between 0.65% and 
3.92% (previous year: 0.65% and 3.92%). The weighted average interest rate for 2025 is 2.05% 
(previous year: 1.91%).  
Assets with a value of €22,695 thousand were provided as collateral for liabilities to banks as at the 
reporting date (31 December 2024: €26,248 thousand). 
Trade payables include liabilities to MBB SE in the amount of €0 thousand (31 Decem-
ber 2024: €56 thousand).  
Profit participation capital totalling €10,213 thousand (31 December 2024: €10,213 thousand) is-
sued by Friedrich Vorwerk SE & Co. KG was reported as at the balance sheet date. The profit partic-
ipation rights grant a guaranteed interest rate of 2.5% above the applicable 3-month EURIBOR. In 
addition, the holder of the profit participation rights participates in the profitability of the FRIEDRICH 
VORWERK Group in the form of a variable interest rate. The total interest rate on the profit partici-
pation rights in the reporting year was 7.2% (previous year: 7.3%). The profit participation rights can 
be terminated for the first time with effect from 31 December 2039.  
The liabilities to non-controlling interests consist of profit shares of the non-controlling sharehold-
ers. The withdrawable claims are recognised in the short term. 
 
14. Other liabilities  
The other liabilities are as follows  
31 Dec 2025
31 Dec 2024
€k
€k
 
 
 
Current
Value added tax
21,977
22,093
ARGEs
21,679
6,627
Wage tax
2,056
1,569
Wages and salaries
172
121
Social security benefits
170
889
Non-hedge derivatives
161
257
Accrued expenses
3
13
Debtors with credit balances
0
255
Other
6
16
 
 
 
Total
46,225
31,839
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 90 
 
 
 
15. Provisions  
15.1 Other provisions 
Other current provisions and provisions with the liability character are composed as follows 
 
31 Dec 2024
Utilisation
Reversal
Additions
31 Dec 2025
€k
€k
€k
€k
€k
 
 
 
 
 
 
Current provisions
Outstanding invoices
23,936
-23,930
0
24,026
24,033
Holiday
5,163
-3,965
-37
5,337
6,497
Personnel costs
619
-51
0
157
725
Warranty costs
2,835
-60
-173
1,331
3,934
Variable salary and commissions
989
-816
-167
2,379
2,385
Accounting and audit costs
499
-397
-30
377
448
Employer's liability insurance association
613
-558
-55
903
903
Flexitime
617
-210
0
507
914
Miscellaneous
2,180
-605
-57
665
2,183
 
 
 
 
 
 
37,451
-30,590
-519
35,682
42,023
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 91 
 
 
 
 
 
31 Dec 2023 
First-time 
consolidation
Utilisation 
Reversal 
Additions 
31 Dec 2024 
€k
€k
€k
€k
€k
€k
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Current provisions
Outstanding invoices
18,111
0
-18,105
0
23,930
23,936
Holiday
5,004
0
-2,850
-28
3,036
5,163
Personnel costs
551
0
-59
-1
127
619
Warranty costs
2,361
1
-60
-260
793
2,835
Variable salary and commissions
343
27
-258
-113
989
989
Accounting and audit costs
398
1
-320
-11
430
499
Provision for onerous contracts
2,093
0
-2,093
0
0
0
Employer's liability insurance association
586
1
-399
-142
567
613
Flexitime
450
0
-172
0
340
617
Miscellaneous
2,107
0
-518
-30
621
2,180
 
0
 
0
0
0
0
32,004
30
-24,834
-584
30,835
37,451
 
The outflow of resources for current provisions is expected in the following financial year. 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 92 
 
 
15.2 Tax provisions 
Tax provisions are as follows: 
 
31 Dec 2025
31 Dec 2024
€k
€k
 
 
 
Corporate Income Tax
5,955
3,167
Trade Tax
9,100
4,485
 
 
 
Carrying amount as at 31 Dec
15,055
7,653
 
 
16. Leases 
Lease liabilities are broken down as follows: 
Lease liabilities by asset type
31 Dec 2025
31 Dec 2024
€k
€k
 
 
 
Land and buildings
1,567
1,608
Technical equipment and machinery
1,572
2,756
Other equipment, operating and office equipment
1,194
12
 
 
 
Total
4,332
4,377
 
Lease liabilities by maturity
31 Dec 2025
31 Dec 2024
€k
€k
 
 
 
Non-current
1,151
2,185
Current
3,181
2,192
 
 
 
Total
4,332
4,377
 
In the 2025 and 2024 financial years, the following amounts were recognised in the consolidated 
statement of comprehensive income 
 
Amounts recognised in the consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income 
2025
2024
€k
€k
 
 
 
Depreciation and amortisation
2,901
2,115
of which for land and buildings
1,168
684
of which for technical equipment and machinery
594
1,331
of which for other equipment, operating and office equipment
1,140
101
Interest expense
128
71
Expenses for short-term leases
28,827
12,522
 
 
 
Total
31,856
14,708
 
The cash outflows for leases (including payments for short-term and low-value leases) totalled 
€32,410 thousand in the 2025 financial year (previous year: €15,108 thousand). 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 93 
 
 
17. Deferred taxes 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities from temporary differences as at 31 December 2025 and 31 De-
cember 2024 are shown in the following table  
31 Dec 2025
31 Dec 2024
€k
€k
 
 
 
Deferred tax assets
6,081
7,510
Deferred tax liabilities
47,277
24,026
 
0
0
Total
-41,196
-16,516
31 Dec 2025
31 Dec 2024
€k
€k
 
 
 
Temporary differences from:
Pension provisions
261
274
Intangible assets
4,669
5,732
Liabilities
1,829
1,473
Property, plant and equipment
778
923
Provisions
75
62
Receivables and contract assets
562
744
Securities
3
0
Other
1
2
Netting
-2,097
-1,700
 
 
 
Deferred tax assets
6,081
7,510
31 Dec 2025
31 Dec 2024
€k
€k
 
 
 
Temporary differences from:
Receivables and contract assets
37,648
19,784
Securities
24
27
Intangible assets
0
1
Property, plant and equipment
2,676
2,659
Financial assets
8,085
2,722
Pension provisions
184
121
Inventories
750
394
Other
7
18
Netting
-2,097
-1,700
 
 
 
Deferred tax liabilities
47,277
24,026
 
On 11 July 2025, the law for an immediate tax investment programme to strengthen Germany as a 
business location came into force, thereby changing the German Corporate Income Tax rate. Under 
this programme, Corporate Income Tax will be reduced from 15% to 10% in 1% increments from 
2028 to 2032, which will be accompanied by a reduction in the solidarity surcharge. The revaluation 
of deferred taxes by applying the corporation tax rates that are expected to apply at the time of the 
reversal of the underlying temporary differences led to deferred tax expenses of €451 thousand rec-
ognised in the income statement and deferred tax income of €17 thousand recognised in other com-
prehensive income. 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 94 
 
 
III. Notes to the statement of comprehensive income 
1. Revenue 
In the 2025 financial year, revenue totalled €704,326 thousand (previous year: €498,353 thousand).  
The following table shows a breakdown of revenue by region 
Region
2025
2024
€k
€k
 
 
0
Germany
697,046
488,407
Europe excluding Germany
4,009
6,083
Other
3,271
3,863
 
 
0
Total
704,326
498,353
 
Service & Operations accounts for 8.6% (previous year: 12.6%) of revenue. 
Please refer to the combined management report and group management report for information on 
the development of revenue. 
As at 31 December 2025, the Group had an order backlog of €1,021.4 million, which is broken down 
by segment as follows 
Segment
31 Dec 2025
31 Dec 2024
€k
€k
 
 
0
Natural Gas
160,377
129,150
Electricity
664,097
903,830
Clean Hydrogen
43,658
44,687
Adjacent Opportunities
153,276
109,993
 
 
0
Total
1,021,408
1,187,660
The Group's remaining performance obligations mainly result from long-term customer contracts 
and project orders, for which revenue is mainly recognised over time in accordance with IFRS 15 as 
the work progresses. 
The fulfilment of these performance obligations and the associated revenue recognition depend on 
the progress of the project, contractually agreed milestones and the respective construction and 
performance schedule. 
Based on current project planning, the Group expects that revenue from the remaining performance 
obligations existing as at the reporting date will be recognised over several reporting periods. A sig-
nificant portion of the revenue will be realised within the next few financial years, while the remain-
der will be realised over the course of the long-term project. 
2. Income from equity investments 
 
2025
2024
€k
€k
 
 
 
Net income from equity investments recognised in financial assets
21,189
5,903
Net income from equity investments recognised in receivables 
and liabilities 
-157
126
 
 
 
Total
21,032
6,029
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 95 
 
 
Shares of the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group in accumulated profits of ARGEs classified as joint ven-
tures are recognised in financial assets under equity investments. Revenues of the FRIEDRICH VOR-
WERK Group from deliveries and services to and services for joint ventures are recognised under 
revenue. The capital paid into a working group is recognised together with any trade receivables from 
the working group after deduction of capital withdrawals and accumulated losses under trade re-
ceivables or, if there is a net liability, under other liabilities. 
3. Other operating income 
 
2025
2024
€k
€k
 
 
 
Offsetting of benefits in kind
2,018
1,563
Own work capitalised
1,785
728
Renting and leasing
1,152
1,081
Reimbursements and government grants
956
692
Insurance indemnities and compensation payments
547
651
Release of provisions
519
584
Asset disposals
391
88
Prior-period income
126
5
Income from securities
45
0
Other items
1,025
467
 
 
 
Total
8,563
5,859
 
Please refer to the statement of changes in provisions for information on income from the reversal 
of provisions. 
Income from government reimbursements and grants relates to public funds to promote employ-
ment: mainly training reimbursements totalling €880 thousand (previous year: €680 thousand) as 
well as integration grants and reimbursed wages and salaries. 
 
4. Cost of materials 
 
2025
2024
€k
€k
 
 
 
Cost of raw materials and supplies
-87,712
-61,748
Cost of purchased services
-235,315
-175,725
 
 
 
Total
-323,027
-237,473
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 96 
 
 
5. Staff costs 
 
2025
2024
€k
€k
 
 
 
Wages and salaries
-139,976
-114,551
Social security contributions
-42,489
-33,537
Other personnel expenses
-1,339
-1,207
 
 
 
Total
-183,804
-149,295
 
6. Other operating expenses 
 
2025
2024
€k
€k
 
 
 
Rental agreements and leasing
-28,827
-12,522
Maintenance expenses
-12,794
-10,176
Travel and vehicle costs
-6,856
-4,740
Other personnel-related expenses
-2,206
-1,867
Insurance
-2,079
-1,600
Education and training
-1,422
-1,268
Research and development costs
-1,414
0
Fees and contributions
-1,065
-964
Legal and counselling
-820
-1,020
Telephone, postage and data communication
-652
-491
Advertising
-410
-242
Office supplies
-281
-266
Ancillary costs for monetary transactions
-70
-92
Exchange rate losses
-44
-15
Losses from the disposal of non-current assets
-43
-148
Losses on receivables and valuation adjustments on receivables
-31
-973
Expenses from derivative financial instruments
0
-360
Prior-period expenses
0
-18
Miscellaneous other operating expenses
-4,804
-6,184
 
 
 
Total
-63,817
-42,945
 
The increase in "Rental agreements and leasing" is mainly due to the costs for the short-term rental 
of equipment and other construction site facilities, which are required for the parallel realisation of 
numerous major projects. 
The research and development costs of €-1,414 thousand (previous year: €0 thousand) recognised 
in other operating expenses related to expenses in the area of automated welding technology. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 97 
 
 
7. Finance income 
 
2025
2024
€k
€k
 
 
 
Interest income from bank balances
2,453
1,108
Income from securities
50
0
Other interest and similar income
55
154
 
 
 
Total
2,559
1,262
 
8. Finance expenses 
 
2025
2024
€k
€k
 
 
 
Interest expenses profit participation rights*
-733
-744
Bank interest
-430
-419
Interest expense from leasing
-128
-71
Interest expense from pensions
-66
-70
Other interest and similar expenses
-254
-121
 
 
 
Total
-1,610
-1,426
* The interest expense from participation rights will be recognised as a separate item from the 2025 financial year. In the annual   
   report for the 2024 financial year, the interest expense from participation rights was recognised under "Other interest and   
   similar expenses". 
At the level of Friedrich Vorwerk SE & Co. KG, there are non-controlling interests of 10.1% that arose 
as part of the reorganisation of the company structure carried out in 2020. These interests accounted 
for earnings of €9.7 million in the reporting year (previous year: €3.8 million).  
 
9. Taxes 
 
Detailed information on the deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised can be found in section 
I.4.18 b) "Deferred taxes". The income tax rate of the parent company is 29.1% (previ-
ous year: 29.1%) and is slightly below the weighted average tax rate of the FRIEDRICH VORWERK 
Group of 29.2% (previous year: 29.2%). Deferred taxes are recognised on the basis of the future 
local income tax rate. 
As at 31 December 2025, the following tax loss carryforwards exist for which no deferred tax assets 
were recognised in the financial year, as in previous years: 
2025
2024
€k
€k
 
 
 
Trade Tax
26,874
24,185
Corporate Income Tax
17,577
12,801
 
 
 
 
The reconciliation between the income tax expense and the product of the profit for the period rec-
ognised in the statement of financial position and the Group's applicable tax rate for the 2025 and 
2024 financial years is as follows 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 98 
 
 
2025
2024
€k
€k
 
 
 
Corporate Income Tax
-8,836
-4,317
Trade Tax
-8,062
-4,469
Deferred taxes
-24,605
-10,314
 
 
 
Total
-41,504
-19,101
 
2025
2024
€k
€k
 
 
 
Consolidated net profit before income taxes
127,426
54,804
Income tax expense
-41,504
-19,101
 
 
 
Actual tax rate
32.6%
34.9%
2025
2024
€k
€k
 
 
 
Earnings before taxes (EBT)
127,936
55,300
Other taxes
-510
-496
Applicable (statutory) tax rate
29.1%
29.1%
 
 
 
Expected tax expense
37,113
15,962
 
 
 
Effects from non-deductible expenses and tax-free income
1,135
515
Taxes relating to other periods
-262
378
Effects due to the utilisation and addition of loss carryforwards
902
1,533
Tax effect due to changes in the income tax rate*
451
38
Taxation of foreign permanent establishments
213
155
Tax effect from profit shares of non-controlling interests**
2,334
557
Other tax effects
-382
-38
 
0
0
Actual income tax expense
41,504
19,101
* For reasons of materiality, the tax effect due to changes in the income tax rate will be reported separately from the 2025   
   financial year (the reason for the change is the reduction in corporation tax from 2028). In the annual report for the 2024    
   financial year, these effects were reported under "Other tax effects". 
** From the 2025 financial year, this effect will be reported as a separate item. In the annual report for the 2024 financial year  
    these effects were reported under "Other tax effects". 
 
 
10. Earnings per share 
Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to the holders of ordi-
nary shares in the parent company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding 
during the year. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 99 
 
 
The following table contains the amounts used in the calculation of basic earnings per share:  
 
2025
2024
 
 
 
Earnings attributable to the holders of ordinary shares (in €)
86,500,571
35,771,309
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (undiluted, in units)
20,000,000
20,000,000
 
 
 
Earnings per share (in €)
4.33
1.79
 
 
11. Other comprehensive income 
The IFRS total comprehensive income of the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group of €86,245 thousand 
(previous year: €35,865 thousand) is made up of earnings after taxes of €85,922 thousand (previ-
ous year: €35,703 thousand) and other comprehensive income of €323 thousand (previ-
ous year: €162 thousand). Other comprehensive income includes losses from the fair value meas-
urement of bonds of €3 thousand (previous year: €0 thousand), gains from the fair value measure-
ment of shares of €74 thousand (previous year: €274 thousand) and actuarial gains from pension 
provisions of €320 thousand (previous year: losses of €157 thousand).  
The following overview shows the income taxes recognised in the respective items of other compre-
hensive income. 
Taxes recognised in other comprehensive income
2025
2024
€k
€k
Changes in fair value of bonds
1
0
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit and loss
1
0
Changes in fair value of shares
-12
-7
Pension reserve
-63
45
Items that will not be subsequently reclassified to profit and loss
-75
38
 
 
 
Total
-74
38
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 100 
 
 
IV. Segment reporting 
1. Information by segment 
Segment reporting was prepared in accordance with IFRS 8 (Operating Segments). According to this 
standard, operating segments are components of an entity for which separate financial information 
is available and which are regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker to determine how 
to allocate resources and assess performance. 
The composition of the operating segments as at the balance sheet date is as follows: 
Natural Gas 
The Natural Gas segment comprises infrastructure services and product solutions for the transport 
and conversion of raw natural gas into processed natural gas for our customers. This involves a series 
of steps from the transport of natural gas through high-pressure pipelines to processing in filtration 
and separation plants, compressor stations, storage and metering systems, LNG terminals and gas 
pressure regulating and metering systems.  
Electricity 
The Electricity segment focuses on providing the infrastructure for the underground transport and 
conversion of electricity generated from climate-friendly, non-fossil energy sources such as wind, 
solar, water and renewable raw materials. Our expertise in the field of electricity transport and con-
version focuses on the landing of offshore electricity and the installation of high-voltage under-
ground cables through which this electricity is transported in transmission grids. At the end of these 
cables are connection points in the form of substations and inverters as well as power-to-heat 
plants, which link the transmission grids with local energy distribution networks. 
Clean Hydrogen 
The Clean Hydrogen segment comprises product solutions and infrastructure services for converting 
energy from climate-friendly energy sources into clean hydrogen and transporting it to end consum-
ers. This is done through a series of processing steps from the conversion of renewable energy 
through electrolysis to the processing and transport of the resulting clean hydrogen through storage 
facilities, compressor stations, pipelines and gas pressure regulation and measurement systems. 
Adjacent Opportunities 
In the Adjacent Opportunities segment, we also focus on related turnkey technologies, such as the 
treatment and purification of biogenic and synthetic gases, heat extraction technologies used in dis-
trict heating and solutions for the transport of district heating, drinking water and waste water, as 
well as special solutions for the chemical and petrochemical industries. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 101 
 
 
Segment figures 
The accounting policies applied for segment reporting correspond to the accounting policies de-
scribed in section I. 4. The segment result is based on the EBITDA of the individual segments, as this 
is used to manage the segments.  
 
1 Jan – 31 Dec 2025
Natural
Electricity
Clean
Adjacent
Group
Gas
Hydrogen
Opportunities
€k
€k
€k
€k
€k
 
 
 
 
 
 
Third-party revenue
184,768
364,817
28,097
126,644
704,326
EBITDA
59,693
59,940
9,318
34,322
163,273
EBITDA margin (in %)
32.3%
16.4%
33.2%
27.1%
23.2%
Revenue share
26.2%
51.8%
4.0%
18.0%
 
0
0
 
0
 
  
1 Jan – 31 Dec 2024
Natural
Electricity
Clean
Adjacent
Group
Gas
Hydrogen
Opportunities
€k
€k
€k
€k
€k
 
 
 
 
 
 
Third-party revenue
171,756
184,439
26,319
115,839
498,353
EBITDA
39,037
20,453
4,441
16,598
80,529
EBITDA margin (in %)
22.7%
11.1%
16.9%
14.3%
16.2%
Revenue share
34.5%
37.0%
5.3%
23.2%
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Reconciliation of EBITDA to consolidated net income
2025
2024
€k
€k
 
 
 
Total EBITDA of the segments
163,273
80,529
Depreciation and amortisation
-26,556
-21,248
Net finance cost
-8,781
-3,981
EBT
127,936
55,300
Income tax expense
-41,504
-19,101
Other taxes
-510
-496
Non-controlling interests
579
68
 
 
 
Consolidated net income
86,501
35,771
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 102 
 
 
2. Information by region 
The non-current assets of the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group are predominantly located in Germany.  
3. Information on main customers 
In the reporting year, revenue with one customer (previous year: one) totalled more than  
10% of the Group's revenue. 
 
Customer
2025
2024
€k
€k
 
 
 
Customer A
247,754
110,795
 
 
 
Total
247,754
110,795
 
Revenue from customer A is recognised in the Electricity segment. 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 103 
 
 
V. Notes to the consolidated statement of cash flows 
The cash flow statement is presented in a separate statement. It shows the changes in cash and 
cash equivalents in the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group. The cash and cash equivalents recognised are 
not subject to any restrictions on disposal by third parties. The Group has not made any payments 
for extraordinary transactions. Payments for income taxes and interest are recognised separately. 
The cash flow statement was prepared in accordance with IAS 7 and breaks down the changes in 
cash and cash equivalents into cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities. The cash 
flow from operating activities is presented using the indirect method. 
The following table shows the changes in liabilities from financing activities: 
 
Liabilities 
to banks
Lease
liabilities
Other
loans
Total
€k
€k
€k
€k
 
 
 
 
 
Statement of financial position
as at 1 Jan 2024 
12,702
3,631
200
Proceeds
8,000
0
0
8,000
Repayments
-2,702
-2,587
-200
-5,489
Cash-effective changes
5,298
-2,587
-200
2,511
 
 
 
 
 
Accrued interests
-4
0
0
-4
New leases
0
3,335
0
3,335
Derecognitions
0
-3
0
-3
Non-cash changes
-4
3,332
0
3,328
 
 
 
 
 
Statement of financial position
as at 31 Dec 2024 
17,996
4,377
0
    
Proceeds
0
3,593
0
3,593
Repayments
-4,530
-3,583
0
-8,113
Cash-effective changes
-4,530
10
0
-4,520
 
 
 
 
 
Accrued interest
-2
0
0
-2
New leases
0
0
0
0
Derecognitions
0
-55
0
-55
Non-cash changes
-2
-55
0
-57
 
 
 
 
 
Statement of financial position
as at 31 Dec 2025 
13,463
4,332
0
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 104 
 
 
VI. Supplementary disclosures on financial instruments 
The financial instruments break down as follows as at the balance sheet date 
31 Dec 2025
Classifica-
tion ac-
cording to 
IFRS 91
Carrying 
amount 
Fair value
€k
Level 
1 
Level 1
2 
Level 
3 
Total
 
 
 
 
 
 
0
Assets
Long-term securities
FVTOCI
5,987
5,987
5,987
(31 Dec 2024)
1,982
1,982
1,982
Trade receivables
AC
25,931
n/a
(31 Dec 2024)
40,475
Other assets2
AC
2,498
n/a
(31 Dec 2024)
2,156
Securities (debt instruments)
FVTOCI
7,576
7,576
7,576
(31 Dec 2024)
0
0
0
Derivatives without hedge relationship
FVTPL
17
17
17
(31 Dec 2024)
69
69
69
Cash and cash equivalents
AC
266,038
n/a
(31 Dec 2024)
174,647
Liabilities
Liabilities to banks 
FLaC
13,463
13,356
13,356
(31 Dec 2024)
17,996
17,790
17,790
Liabilities from participation rights
FLaC
10,213
13,790
13,790
(31 Dec 2024)
10,213
13,827
13,827
Trade payables
FLaC
5,853
n/a
(31 Dec 2024)
4,369
Other liabilities2
FLaC
21,679
n/a
(31 Dec 2024)
6,627
Provisions with liability character
FLaC
33,521
n/a
(31 Dec 2024)
31,447
Liabilities to non-controlling interest
FLaC
20,381
n/a
(31 Dec 2024)
11,759
Derivatives without hedge relationship
FVTPL
161
161
161
(31 Dec 2024)
257
257
257
Aggregated by measurement category
Financial assets
AC
294,468
Financial assets
FVTOCI
13,564
Financial assets
FVTPL
17
Financial liabilities
FLaC
105,111
Financial liabilities
FVTPL
161
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 AC: amortised cost; FLaC: financial liabilities at amortised cost; FVTPL: fair value through profit and loss;  
  FVTOCI: fair value through other comprehensive income 
2 Other assets and liabilities that are not financial assets or liabilities are not included.   
 
The fair value of financial instruments for which the carrying amount represent a reasonable approx-
imation of the fair values is not disclosed separately.  
Investments in equity instruments are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 
based on a quoted market price in an active market. For derivatives measured at fair value, the fair 
value is determined using the expected future cash flows, which are discounted using generally ob-
servable market data of the corresponding yield curves. 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 105 
 
 
Cash and cash equivalents and trade receivables mainly have short remaining terms. Therefore, their 
carrying amounts as at the balance sheet date approximate their fair values.   
Trade payables, other current loans and other financial liabilities generally have short maturities; the 
values recognised in the statement of financial position approximate the fair values. The fair values 
of financial liabilities and liabilities from participation rights are calculated as the present value of 
expected future cash flows. Standard market interest rates for the corresponding maturities and 
credit ratings are used for discounting.  
There were no changes between the levels in the current or previous financial year. 
The following tables show the valuation techniques used to determine the fair values. 
Financial instruments measured at fair value 
Financial 
instrument 
Valuation technique 
Material, 
unobservable  
input factors
Relationship between key
unobservable inputs and fair 
value measurement
Securities
The fair value is based on 
the market price of the eq-
uity and debt instruments 
as at 31 December 2025.
Not applicable
Not applicable
Interest rate and 
diesel swaps 
The fair value is calculated 
as the present value of the 
estimated future cash 
flows.
Not applicable
Not applicable
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Financial instruments not measured at fair value 
Financial
instrument
Valuation technique 
Liabilities to banks and liabili-
ties from participation rights 
Discounted cash flows: The valuation model takes into account the present 
value of the expected payments, discounted using a risk-adjusted discount 
rate.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VII. Objectives and methods of financial risk management 
1. Financial assets and liabilities 
The Group's main financial liabilities are non-current and current liabilities to banks, liabilities from 
participation rights, current trade payables and other non-current and current liabilities. The Group's 
financial assets mainly consist of cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables and securities. The 
carrying amount of the financial assets recognised in the consolidated financial statements less im-
pairments represents the maximum default risk. It amounts to a total of  €305,613 thousand 
(31 Dec 2024: €217,105 thousand). Business relationships are only entered into with creditworthy 
contractual partners. Trade receivables are due from a diversified customer structure in the energy 
industry. Ongoing credit assessments are carried out with regard to the financial status of receiva-
bles. A payment term of 30 days without deduction is usually granted. No valuation allowances were 
recognised for trade receivables that were overdue as at the balance sheet date if no significant 
changes in the creditworthiness of the customers were identified and payment of the outstanding 
amounts is expected. 
For information on the maturities of financial liabilities, please refer to our comments under II.13. Li-
abilities and II.14. Other liabilities. 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 106 
 
 
 
2. Capital risk management 
The Group manages its capital (equity plus liabilities less cash and cash equivalents) with the aim of 
achieving its growth targets through financial flexibility while at the same time optimising finance 
costs. The overall strategy in this regard is unchanged compared to the previous year. 
Management reviews the capital structure at least every six months. The cost of capital, the collat-
eral provided and the open credit lines and credit facilities are reviewed. 
The capital structure in the reporting year is as follows: 
31 Dec 2025
31 Dec 2024
 
 
 
Equity in €k
285,253
205,006
- in % of total capital
49.5%
46.9%
Liabilities in €k
290,685
232,553
- in % of total capital
50.5%
53.1%
Current liabilities in €k
202,391
172,012
- in % of total capital
35.1%
39.3%
Non-current liabilities in €k
88,294
60,541
- in % of total capital
15.3%
13.8%
Net gearing ratio*
-0.9
-0.8
 
 
 
* Calculated as financial liabilities less cash and cash equivalents in relation to equity. 
 
3. Financial risk management 
Financial risk is monitored centrally by the management. The individual financial risks are reviewed 
at least quarterly. 
The main risks to the Group arising from financial instruments include liquidity and credit risks. Busi-
ness relationships are only concluded with creditworthy contracting parties. 
Assessments by independent rating agencies, other available financial information and the Group's 
own trading records are used to evaluate the creditworthiness of major customers in particular. In 
addition, the amounts receivable are monitored on an ongoing basis so that the FRIEDRICH VOR-
WERK Group is not exposed to any significant credit risk. The maximum default risk is limited to the 
respective carrying amount of the assets recognised in the statement of financial position. 
Valuation allowances on trade receivables and contract assets are determined using the simplified 
approach. 
The Group manages liquidity risks by holding appropriate reserves, monitoring and maintaining 
credit agreements and planning and coordinating cash inflows and outflows. 
 
4. Market risks 
Market risks can arise from changes in exchange rates (exchange rate risk), interest rates (interest 
rate risk) or commodity prices (other price risks). Exchange rate risks are largely avoided by the fact 
that the Group mainly invoices in euros or local currency. 
The Group is exposed to interest rate risks as a result of borrowing funds at variable interest rates. 
The FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group manages this risk by maintaining an appropriate ratio between 
fixed and variable interest rate agreements. Hedging using derivatives (e.g. interest rate swaps or 
interest rate futures) takes place in exceptional cases. As at the reporting date, there were variable-
interest liabilities totalling €10,513 thousand (previous year: €10,826 thousand), of which variable-
interest liabilities to banks amounted to €300 thousand (previous year: €613 thousand), with the 
remaining amount relating to liabilities from participation rights (unchanged at €10,213 thousand). 
Hedging transactions existed in the form of four interest rate swaps with a nominal volume of 
€7,322 thousand. If, ceteris paribus, interest rates had been two percentage points higher (lower) 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 107 
 
 
assuming a corresponding average level of debt (including liabilities from participation rights), earn-
ings before taxes and equity would have been €213 thousand lower (higher) (of which €8 thousand 
relates to liabilities to banks). 
In addition, there were two commodity swaps with a nominal volume of €524 thousand as at the 
reporting date. 
 
5 Liquidity risk 
Liquidity risk describes the risk that the Group will not be able to fulfil its payment obligations when 
they fall due. There are no liquidity risks from financial liabilities due to the high level of cash and 
cash equivalents. The Group and its subsidiaries manage liquidity risks both by holding appropriate 
reserves and by constantly monitoring forecast and actual cash flows as well as by matching the 
maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities. 
IFRS 7 also requires a maturity analysis for financial liabilities. The following maturity analysis shows 
how the undiscounted cash flows in connection with the liabilities as at 31 December 2025 affect 
the Group's future liquidity situation.  
 
31 Dec 2025
Undiscounted cash flows
Carrying 
amount as at 
31 Dec 2025
Up to 1 year
More than 
1 year and up 
to 5 years
More than 
5 years
Type of liability
€k
€k
€k
€k
 
 
 
 
 
Liabilities to banks
13,463
2,507
8,559
3,728
Liabilities from participation rights
10,213
627
2,728
17,078
Trade payable
5,853
5,853
0
0
Other financial liabilities
21,679
21,679
0
0
Liabilities to non-controlling interests
20,381
3,767
0
16,614
Lease liabilities
4,332
3,265
1,094
158
 
 
 
 
 
Total
75,922
37,698
12,382
37,577
 
31 Dec 2024
Undiscounted cash flows
Carrying 
amount as at
31 Dec 2024
Up to 1 year
More than 
1 year and up 
to 5 years
More than
5 years
Type of liability
€k
€k
€k
€k
 
 
 
 
 
Liabilities to banks
17,996
4,914
9,053
5,740
Liabilities from participation rights
10,213
603
2,537
16,925
Trade payables
4,369
4,369
0
0
Other financial liabilities
6,627
6,627
0
0
Liabilities to non-controlling interests
11,759
3,225
0
8,534
Lease liabilities
4,377
2,291
2,200
62
 
 
 
 
 
Total
55,340
22,028
13,791
31,260
 
If the contractual partner can call up a payment at different times, the liability is based on the earli-
est due date. Interest payments on financial instruments with variable interest rates are calculated 
on the basis of forward interest rates. In the case of performance-related interest, the interest rate 
for the reporting year is generally assumed, unless better information is available. The cash flows of 
financial and lease liabilities are made up of their undiscounted interest and amortisation payments.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 108 
 
 
VIII. Other mandatory disclosures 
1. Executive bodies  
Management Board of Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE 
 
Torben Kleinfeldt, engineering graduate, business graduate, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) 
 
Tim Hameister, business management graduate (M.Sc.), Chief Financial Officer (CFO) 
Torben Kleinfeldt, Chief Executive Officer, is responsible for Strategic Development & International-
isation, Strategic Sales, Purchasing, Engineering and Legal & Compliance. Tim Hameister, Chief Fi-
nancial Officer, is responsible for Finance, Investor Relations, Controlling and Human Resources. 
 
Supervisory Board of Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE 
 
Dr Christof Nesemeier, business graduate, Chairman 
 
Dr Julian Deutz, business graduate, Deputy Chairman 
 
Heike von der Heyden, business graduate 
 
Information on other mandates in other statutory supervisory boards and comparable domestic 
and foreign supervisory bodies 
Dr Christof Nesemeier is also Chairman of the Board of Directors of MBB SE, Berlin, and a member 
of the Supervisory Board of DTS IT AG, Herford. 
2. Remuneration of the members of the Management Board and Supervisory Board 
The total remuneration granted to the members of the Management Board in the financial year to-
talled €1.1 million (previous year: €0.9 million), while that of the members of the Supervisory Board 
amounted to €0.1 million (previous year: €0.1 million). 
3. Transactions with related parties 
Related parties are companies and individuals that have the ability to control the FRIEDRICH VOR-
WERK Group or exercise significant influence over its financial and operating policies. 
3.1 Related parties 
In accordance with IAS 24, the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group also reports on transactions with re-
lated parties and their family members. Related parties within the meaning of IAS 24 are defined as 
the members of the Management Board of Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE and their family members. 
There were no business transactions with family members in the financial year or in the previous 
year.  
The remuneration of key management personnel to be disclosed in accordance with IAS 24 com-
prises the remuneration of the members of the Management Board and Supervisory Board. 
These were remunerated as follows: 
 
2025
2024
€k
€k
 
 
 
Salaries and other short-term benefits
1,146
932
 
 
 
Total
1,146
932
 
In the year under review, the Management Board was remunerated via the subsidiary Friedrich Vor-
werk Management SE.  
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 109 
 
 
 
Management Board 
In the reporting period, ALX Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH acquired a used motor vehicle from a 
Group company for a standard market purchase price of €48 thousand. The balance as at the balance 
sheet date from transactions with ALX Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH totalled €0 thousand. ALX Be-
teiligungsgesellschaft mbH is attributed to the Chairman of the Management Board of Friedrich Vor-
werk Group SE. 
Please also refer to the information on the remuneration of the executive bodies and the separate 
remuneration report.  
Notification of transactions in accordance with Section 15a WpHG 
Persons with management duties, in particular the Management Board and the members of the Su-
pervisory Board of Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE, as well as persons closely related to them are obliged 
to disclose transactions in shares of Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE or related financial instruments in 
accordance with Section 15a of the German Securities Trading Act (WpHG). Notifications of such 
transactions are published on our website at www.friedrich-vorwerk-group.de/en/investor-rela-
tions/corporate-governance/. 
 
3.2 Related companies 
Subsidiaries are considered to be related companies irrespective of whether they are included in the 
consolidated financial statements or not. Transactions between the company and its subsidiaries 
were eliminated by way of consolidation and are not explained in these notes or are of minor im-
portance and customary in the industry. Related companies are also considered to be those compa-
nies described as associated with the above related persons.  
In addition, MBB SE, as the parent company of Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE, and the companies in-
cluded in the scope of consolidation of MBB SE are to be regarded as related parties. Business trans-
actions with these companies were conducted at arm's length.  
As at the balance sheet date, there was a consultancy agreement at arm's length with MBB SE as the 
contractor. The total transactions in the 2025 financial year amounted to €560 thousand (previ-
ous year: €560 thousand). In addition, costs for D&O insurance, IT systems and other services to-
talling €71 thousand (previous year: €63 thousand) were charged on by MBB SE to the FRIEDRICH 
VORWERK Group. The balance with MBB SE as at the balance sheet date was €0 thousand (previ-
ous year: €56 thousand). 
The FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group has commissioned DTS Systeme GmbH, an indirect subsidiary of 
MBB SE, to provide various IT-specific services at arm's length conditions. The total transactions in 
the 2025 financial year totalled to €213 thousand (previous year: €183 thousand). As at the balance 
sheet date, a total balance of €1 thousand (previous year: €0 thousand) was outstanding. 
The FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group has commissioned Aumann AG, a subsidiary of MBB SE, to provide 
recruiting services at standard market conditions. The total transactions in the 2025 financial year 
amounted to €30 thousand (previous year: €51 thousand). As at the balance sheet date, a total bal-
ance of €0 thousand (previous year: €12 thousand) was outstanding. 
With regard to the ARGEs, please refer to section II.5 (Information on ARGEs). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 110 
 
 
4. Employees 
The Group had the following employees in the financial year: 
2025
2024
Average number of employees
Headcount
Headcount
 
 
 
Technical staff
1,457
1,252
Employees
683
608
 
 
 
Total
2,140
1,860
31 Dec 2025
31 Dec 2024
As at the reporting date
Headcount
Headcount
 
 
 
Technical staff
1,526
1,315
Employees
717
633
 
 
 
Total
2,243
1,948
 
As at 31 December 2025, the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group had 160 people (previous year: 129) in 
training or on a dual study programme who are not included in the above employee figures. 
 
5. Auditor costs 
The fees recognised for the auditor in the 2025 and 2024 financial years are broken down as follows 
2025
2024
€k
€k
Audit services
204
211
Tax advisory services
0
0
Other assurance services
0
0
Other services
0
0
 
 
 
Total
204
211
 
6. Events after the end of the reporting period 
The military escalation in the course of the Iran war has the potential to have a significant impact on 
the global economy. The military conflict leads to significant price increases on the crude oil markets. 
The potential impact on the global financial markets, international supply chains and economy in 
Germany and the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group is currently not foreseeable due to the highly dynamic 
and uncertain nature of the current situation. 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 111 
 
 
7. Contingent liabilities and off-balance sheet transactions 
It is customary and necessary in the industry to issue various guarantees and warranties to secure 
contractual obligations. These guarantees are usually issued by banks or credit insurance companies 
and essentially comprise contract fulfilment, advance payment and warranty guarantees. As at the 
reporting date, the guarantees issued amounted to €398.2 million (31 December 2024: €281.5 mil-
lion). The banks have recourse claims against the Group if the guarantee is utilised. There is only a 
risk of a guarantee being utilised if the underlying contractual obligations are not properly fulfilled. 
No claims were made against the Group in the financial year or in the past.  
Obligations or probable risks from such guarantees are recognised as liabilities or provisions in the 
statement of financial position.  
In addition, as is customary in the industry, joint and several liability exists with the other working 
group partners in which companies of the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group are involved. 
8. Other financial obligations 
Right-of-use assets and lease liabilities were recognised in the statement of financial position for 
the majority of operating leases. Exceptions to this are short-term leases, leases with low-value un-
derlying assets and variable lease payments.  
In addition, the FRIEDRICH VORWERK Group concluded contracts in 2025 for the purchase of prop-
erty, plant and equipment that had not been delivered and not yet invoiced as at 31 December 2025. 
The off-balance sheet obligations as at 31 December 2025 and in the prior-year period are as fol-
lows: 
Other financial obligations
31 Dec 2025
31 Dec 2024
€k
€k
 
 
 
Up to one year
7,628
9,140
More than one year and up to five years
0
29
More than five years
0
0
 
 
 
Total
7,628
9,169
 
9. Declaration pursuant to section 161 AktG (unaudited) 
As a listed stock corporation, Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE is required to issue a declaration in ac-
cordance with section 161 AktG on the extent to which it complies with the recommendations of the 
"Government Commission on the German Corporate Governance Code". The Management Board and 
the Supervisory Board issued this declaration for the last time on 24 March 2026. It is part of the 
combined management and group management report and is published on the Internet at www.frie-
drich-vorwerk-group.de/en/investor-relations/corporate-governance. 
 
10. Appropriation of earnings 
On the occasion of the outstanding financial year 2025, the Management Board and the Supervisory 
Board propose that, in addition to the basic dividend of €14,000,000.00 or €0.70 per dividend-bear-
ing share, a special dividend of €8,000,000.00 or €0.40 per dividend-bearing share, i.e. a total of 
€22,000,000.00 or €1.10 per dividend-bearing share, be distributed and the remaining amount be 
carried forward to new account. 
 
11. Affiliation to the Group 
Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE, Tostedt, prepares the consolidated financial statements for the smallest 
group of companies. These are published in the electronic Federal Gazette. MBB SE , based in Berlin, 
prepares the consolidated financial statements for the largest group of companies. The consolidated 
financial statements are published in the electronic Federal Gazette. 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2025 
Page 112 
 
 
12. Exemption from disclosure requirements 
Pursuant to section 264b HGB, Friedrich Vorwerk SE & Co. KG, Tostedt, is exempt from the obligation 
to publish its annual financial statements for the 2025 financial year. 
 
Tostedt, 24 March 2026 
 
 
 
Torben Kleinfeldt 
 
 
 
Tim Hameister 
 
 
CEO 
 
 
 
 
 
CFO 
 
 
 
 
Assurance of the legal representatives (unaudited) 
Page 113 
 
 
 
Assurance of the legal representatives (unaudited) 
To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the applicable reporting principles for financial 
reporting, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and results of operations of the Group, and the group management report includes 
a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, 
together with a description of the principal opportunities and risks associated with the expected 
development of the Group. 
 
Tostedt, 24 March 2026 
 
 
 
Torben Kleinfeldt 
 
 
 
Tim Hameister 
CEO 
 
 
 
 
 
CFO 
 
 
 
 
Independent Auditor’s Report 
Page 114 
 
 
 
Independent Auditor’s Report 
 
To Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE:  
REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OF THE COM-
BINED GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT 
 
Audit Opinions  
We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE, Tostedt, and 
its subsidiaries (the Group), which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position as at 
31 December 2025, the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehen-
sive income, the consolidated statement of changes in equity and the consolidated statement of cash 
flows for the financial year from 1 January to 31 December 2025, and notes to the consolidated 
financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. In addition, we have 
audited the group management report of Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE, which is combined with the 
management report of the Company, for the financial year from 1 January to 31 December 2025. In 
accordance with the German legal requirements, we have not audited the content of the components 
listed in the "Other information" section of our auditor's report. 
In our opinion, based on the findings of our audit 
●  
the accompanying consolidated financial statements comply, in all material respects, with 
the IFRSs as adopted by the EU and the additional requirements of German commercial law 
pursuant to section 315e (1) HGB and, in compliance with these requirements, give a true 
and fair view of the assets, liabilities and financial position of the Group as at 31 Decem-
ber 2025 and of its financial performance for the financial year from 1 January to 31 Decem-
ber 2025, and 
●  
the accompanying group management report as a whole provides a suitable view of the 
Group's position. In all material respects, this group management report is consistent with 
the consolidated financial statements, complies with German legal requirements and appro-
priately presents the opportunities and risks of future development. Our audit opinion on the 
group management report does not cover the content of those parts of the group manage-
ment report listed in the "Other information" section. 
Pursuant to section 322 (3) sentence 1 HGB, we declare that our audit has not led to any reservations 
relating to the legal compliance of the consolidated financial statements and of the group manage-
ment report. 
 
Basis for the audit opinions  
We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements and of the group management re-
port in accordance with section 317 HGB and the EU Audit Regulation (No 537/2014, referred to 
subsequently as "EU Audit Regulation") and in compliance with German Generally Accepted Stand-
ards for Financial Statement Audits promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer [Institute of 
Public Auditors in Germany] (IDW). Our responsibilities under those requirements and principles are 
further described in the "Auditor's Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial State-
ments and of the group management report" section of our auditor's report. We are independent of 
the Group companies in accordance with the requirements of European law and German commercial 
and professional law, and we have fulfilled our other German professional responsibilities in accord-
ance with these requirements. In addition, in accordance with Article 10 (2) (f) of the EU Audit Reg-
ulation, we declare that we have not provided non-audit services prohibited under Article 5 (1) of 
the EU Audit Regulation. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and ap-
propriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions on the consolidated financial statements and on 
the group management report. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Independent Auditor’s Report 
Page 115 
 
 
 
Key audit matters in the audit of the consolidated financial statements 
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance 
in our audit of the consolidated financial statements for the financial year from 1 January to 31 De-
cember 2025. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion 
on these matters. 
 
In our view, the following matter was the most significant in our audit: 
 
Revenue recognition from construction contracts 
 
We have structured our presentation of this key audit matter as follows: 
1. Matter and issue 
2. Audit approach and findings 
3. Reference to further information 
 
We present the key audit matter below: 
 
Revenue recognition from construction contracts and projects 
1. A significant portion of the Group's business activities is conducted via construction contracts 
and projects. The recognition of revenue in accordance with IFRS 15 depends on the degree 
of fulfilment of the performance obligation and must be evaluated on the basis of the under-
lying contracts. Due to its complexity, revenue recognition is an area with a significant risk of 
material misstatement (including the potential risk of management overriding controls) and 
is therefore a key audit matter. The Group's revenue amounts to €704,326 thousand in 2025. 
€54,029 thousand in contract assets and €84,084 thousand in contract liabilities from con-
struction contracts and projects are reported as at 31 December 2025. 
2. To address this risk, we critically scrutinised the management's assumptions and estimates 
and performed the following audit procedures, among others: 
 
as part of our audit, we examined the internally defined methods, procedures and con-
trol mechanisms of project management in the bidding and execution phase of con-
struction contracts. In addition, we assessed the design and effectiveness of the ac-
counting-related internal controls by tracing order-specific business transactions from 
their origination to their presentation in the consolidated financial statements and by 
testing controls.  
 
we assessed the estimates and assumptions made by the legal representatives in the 
context of case-by-case audits on the basis of random samples selected on a risk-ori-
ented basis. Our audit procedures included, among other things, a review of the con-
tractual basis and contractual conditions, including contractually agreed provisions on 
partial deliveries or services, cancellation rights, default and contractual penalties and 
damages. For the selected projects, we also examined the billable revenue as at the 
reporting date and the related cost of sales to be recognised in profit or loss based on 
the percentage of completion and the accounting treatment of related statement of 
financial position items in order to assess the determination of revenue for the period. 
 
we also conducted inquiries of project management (both commercial and technical 
project managers) regarding the development of the projects, the reasons for devia-
tions between planned costs and actual costs, the current assessment of the costs ex-
pected to be incurred until completion and the estimates of the legal representatives 
regarding potential contract risks. 
Our audit procedures did not lead to any reservations relating to the recognition of revenue 
from construction contracts. 
 
 
 
 
Independent Auditor’s Report 
Page 116 
 
 
 
3. The Company's disclosures on the accounting policies applied in the context of recognising 
construction contracts are contained in Note I.4.17 of the notes to the financial statements. 
 
Other information  
The legal representatives and the Supervisory Board are responsible for the other information. The 
other information comprises  
 
the Group declaration on corporate governance pursuant to section 315d HGB in conjunction 
with section 289f HGB, 
 
the non-financial Group report in accordance with section 315b HGB in conjunction with section 
289b HGB and all references thereto, 
 
the remaining parts of the annual report (in particular the report of the Supervisory Board), with 
the exception of the audited consolidated financial statements and the group management re-
port and our auditor's report, and 
 
the responsibility statement pursuant to section 297 (2) sentence 4 HGB for the consolidated 
financial statements and the responsibility statement pursuant to section 315 (1) sentence 5 
HGB for the group management report. 
The Supervisory Board is responsible for the report of the Supervisory Board. The legal representa-
tives and the Supervisory Board are responsible for the declaration pursuant to section 161 AktG on 
the German Corporate Governance Code, which forms part of the declaration on corporate govern-
ance contained in the management report. In all other respects, the legal representatives are re-
sponsible for the other information. 
 
Our opinions on the consolidated financial statements and on the group management report do not 
cover the other information, and consequently we do not express an opinion or any other form of 
assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with our audit, our responsibility is to read the other 
information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information. 
 
is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements, with the group manage-
ment report or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or 
 
otherwise appears to be materially misstated.  
 
Responsibilities of the legal representatives and the Supervisory Board for the consolidated fi-
nancial statements and the group management report  
The legal representatives are responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial state-
ments that comply, in all material respects, with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and the additional re-
quirements of German commercial law pursuant to section 315e (1) HGB and that the consolidated 
financial statements, in compliance with these requirements, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and financial performance of the Group. Furthermore, management is 
responsible for such internal control as they have determined necessary to enable the preparation 
of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud 
(i.e. accounting fraud or misstatement) or error. 
 
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the legal representatives are responsible for as-
sessing the Group's ability to continue as a going concern. Furthermore, they are responsible for 
disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern. In addition, they are responsible for fi-
nancial reporting based on the going concern basis of accounting unless there is an intention to liq-
uidate the Group or to cease operations, or there is no realistic alternative but to do so. 
 
Furthermore, management is responsible for the preparation of the group management report that, 
as a whole, provides an appropriate view of the Group's position and is, in all material respects, 
 
 
 
 
Independent Auditor’s Report 
Page 117 
 
 
 
consistent with the consolidated financial statements, complies with German legal requirements, 
and appropriately presents the opportunities and risks of future development. In addition, manage-
ment is responsible for such arrangements and measures (systems) as they have considered neces-
sary to enable the preparation of a group management report that is in accordance with the applica-
ble German legal requirements, and to be able to provide sufficient appropriate evidence for the 
assertions in the group management report. 
 
The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the Group's financial reporting process for the 
preparation of the consolidated financial statements and of the group management report. 
 
Auditor's Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements and of the 
Group Management Report  
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial state-
ments as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and whether 
the group management report as a whole provides an appropriate view of the Group's position and, 
in all material respects, is consistent with the consolidated financial statements and the knowledge 
obtained in the audit, complies with the German legal requirements and appropriately presents the 
opportunities and risks of future development, as well as to issue an auditor's report that includes 
our opinions on the consolidated financial statements and on the group management report.  
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in 
accordance with section 317 HGB and the EU Audit Regulation and in compliance with German Gen-
erally Accepted Standards for Financial Statement Audits promulgated by the Institut der 
Wirtschaftsprüfer [Institute of Public Auditors in Germany] (IDW) will always detect a material mis-
statement. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually 
or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users 
taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements and this group management report. 
During the audit, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism. In ad-
dition  
 
identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements 
and of the group management report, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit 
procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropri-
ate to provide a basis for our opinions. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement result-
ing from fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from 
error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the 
override of internal control.  
 
obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit of the consolidated financial 
statements and of arrangements and measures relevant to the audit of the group management 
report in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for 
the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group's internal control or on 
the effectiveness of these arrangements and measures.  
 
evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used by the executive directors and the 
reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the executive direc-
tors.  
 
conclude on the appropriateness of management's use of the going concern basis of accounting 
and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to 
events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group's ability to continue as a going 
concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in 
the auditor's report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements and in 
the group management report or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our respective 
audit opinions. We draw our conclusions on the basis of the audit evidence obtained up to the 
 
 
 
 
Independent Auditor’s Report 
Page 118 
 
 
 
date of our auditor's report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease 
to be able to continue as a going concern.  
 
evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial state-
ments, including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial statements present 
the underlying transactions and events in a manner that the consolidated financial statements 
give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and financial performance of 
the Group in compliance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and the additional requirements of 
German commercial law pursuant to section 315e (1) HGB.  
 
obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities 
or business activities within the Group to express opinions on the consolidated financial state-
ments and on the group management report. We are responsible for the direction, supervision 
and performance of the audit of the consolidated financial statements. We are solely responsi-
ble for our audit opinions.  
 
evaluate the consistency of the group management report with the consolidated financial state-
ments, its conformity with [German] law, and the view of the Group's position it provides.  
 
perform audit procedures on the prospective information presented by the legal representatives 
in the group management report. On the basis of sufficient appropriate audit evidence we eval-
uate, in particular, the significant assumptions used by management as a basis for the prospec-
tive information, and evaluate the proper derivation of the prospective information from these 
assumptions. We do not express a separate opinion on the forward-looking statements or on 
the underlying assumptions. There is a significant unavoidable risk that future events will differ 
materially from the forward-looking statements.  
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned 
scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in 
internal control that we identify during our audit. 
We provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with the relevant 
independence requirements, and communicate with them all relationships and other matters that 
may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, the actions taken or 
safeguards applied to address independence threats.  
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters 
that were of most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current 
reporting period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor's 
report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter. 
OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS  
REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE ELECTRONIC VERSIONS OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINAN-
CIAL STATEMENTS AND THE GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT PREPARED FOR PUBLICATION 
PURPOSES IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 317 (3A) OF THE GERMAN COMMERCIAL CODE 
(HGB). 
Audit opinion 
We have performed an assurance engagement in accordance with section 317 (3a) HGB to obtain 
reasonable assurance about whether the reproduction of the consolidated financial statements and 
the group management report (hereinafter also referred to as "ESEF documents") contained in the 
attached file "FriedrichVorwerkGroupSE-2025-12-31-1-de.xbri" and prepared for publication pur-
poses complies in all material respects with the requirements of section 328 (1) HGB for the elec-
tronic reporting format ("ESEF format"). In accordance with German legal requirements, this audit 
only extends to the conversion of the information contained in the consolidated financial statements 
 
 
 
 
Independent Auditor’s Report 
Page 119 
 
 
 
and the group management report into the ESEF format and therefore does not extend to the infor-
mation contained in these reproductions or any other information contained in the above-mentioned 
file. 
In our opinion, the reproduction of the consolidated financial statements and the group management 
report contained in the above-mentioned attached file and prepared for publication purposes com-
plies in all material respects with the requirements of section 328 (1) HGB for the electronic report-
ing format. Beyond this audit opinion and our audit opinions on the accompanying consolidated fi-
nancial statements and on the accompanying group management report for the financial year from 
1 January to 31 December 2025 contained in the "Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements and of the Group Management Report" above, we do not express any audit opinion on 
the information contained in these reproductions or on the other information contained in the above-
mentioned file.  
Basis for the audit opinion 
We conducted our audit of the reproduction of the consolidated financial statements and of the group 
management report contained in the above-mentioned attached file in accordance with Section 317 
(3a) HGB and in compliance with IDW Auditing Standard: Audit of the Electronic Reproduction of 
Financial Statements and Management Reports Prepared for Publication Purposes in Accordance 
with Section 317 (3a) HGB (IDW PS 410 (06.2022)). Our responsibilities under those requirements 
are further described in the "Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the ESEF documents" section. 
Our audit practice complies with the quality management system requirements of the IDW Quality 
Management Standard:  Requirements for Quality Management in the Auditing Practice (IDW QMS 1 
(09.2022)) have been applied. 
Responsibility of the legal representatives and the Supervisory Board for the ESEF documents 
The company’s management is responsible for the preparation of the ESEF documents including the 
electronic reproduction of the consolidated financial statements and the group management report 
in accordance with section 328 (1) sentence 4 no. 1 HGB and for the labelling of the consolidated 
financial statements in accordance with section 328 (1) sentence 4 no. 2 HGB. 
Furthermore, the company's management is responsible for such internal control as they have de-
termined necessary to enable the preparation of ESEF documents that are free from material non-
compliance with the requirements of section 328 (1) HGB for the electronic reporting format, 
whether due to fraud or error. 
The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the process of preparing the ESEF documents 
as part of the financial reporting process. 
Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the ESEF documents 
Our objective is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the ESEF documents are free from 
material non-compliance with the requirements of section 328 (1) HGB, whether due to fraud or 
error. During the audit, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism. In 
addition 
 
identify and assess the risks of material non-compliance with the requirements of section 
328 (1) HGB, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to 
those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for 
our opinion. 
 
obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit of the ESEF documents in order 
to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of 
expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of these controls. 
 
 
 
 
Independent Auditor’s Report 
Page 120 
 
 
 
 
evaluate the technical validity of the ESEF documents, i.e. whether the file containing the ESEF 
documents complies with the requirements of the Delegated Regulation (EU) 2019/815 in the 
version applicable as of the reporting date regarding the technical specification for this file. 
 
evaluate whether the ESEF documents enable a consistent XHTML reproduction of the audited 
consolidated financial statements and the audited group management report. 
 
evaluate whether the tagging of the ESEF documents with Inline XBRL technology (iXBRL) ac-
cording to Articles 4 and 6 of the Delegated Regulation (EU) 2019/815 in the version applicable 
at the reporting date provides an adequate and complete machine-readable XBRL copy of the 
XHTML reproduction.  
Other disclosures in accordance with article 10 of the EU-Audit Regulation  
We were elected as group auditor by the Annual General Meeting of the parent company on 
2 June 2025. We were engaged by the Supervisory Board on 4 December 2025. We have been the 
group auditor without interruption since the financial year 2019. 
We declare that the audit opinions expressed in this auditor's report are consistent with the addi-
tional report to the audit committee pursuant to Article 11 of the EU Audit Regulation (audit report).  
Other Matters - Use of the Auditor's Report  
Our audit opinion should always be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial state-
ments, the audited group management report and the audited ESEF documents. The consolidated 
financial statements and the group management report converted into the ESEF format - including 
the versions to be filed in the Federal Gazette - are merely electronic reproductions of the audited 
consolidated financial statements and the audited group management report and do not replace 
them. In particular, the ESEF report and our audit opinion contained therein can only be used in 
conjunction with the audited ESEF documents provided in electronic form. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Independent Auditor’s Report 
Page 121 
 
 
 
RESPONSIBLE AUDITOR  
 
The German Public Auditor responsible for the engagement is Christian Weyers. 
 
Düsseldorf, 24 March 2026 
 
 
Nexia GmbH 
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft  
Steuerberatungsgesellschaft 
 
 
 
Dr Grabs 
 
 
 
Weyers 
 
Wirtschaftsprüfer 
 
 
Wirtschaftsprüfer 
 
[Certified Public Auditor] 
 
[Certified Public Auditor]
 
 
 
 
Financial calendar 
page 122 
 
 
 
Financial calendar 
Annual Report 2025 
31 March 2026 
 
Quarterly report Q1 2026 
12 May 2026 
 
Annual General Meeting 2026 
1 June 2026 
 
Half-year financial report 2026 
13 August 2026 
 
Quarterly report Q3 2026 
12 November 2026 
 
End of the financial year 
31 December 2026 
 
 
Conferences 
Berenberg European Conference, New York City 
19 May 2026 
 
Jefferies German & Swiss Corporate Conference 
June 2026 
 
Hamburg Investor Days, Hamburg 
August 2026 
 
Berenberg and Goldman Sachs German Corporate Conference, Munich 
September 2026 
 
German Equity Forum, Frankfurt 
November 2026 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contact 
Page 123 
 
 
 
Contact 
Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE 
Harburger Straße 19 
21255 Tostedt 
 
Tel:  
+49 4182 - 2947 0 
Fax:  
+49 4182 - 6155  
 
www.friedrich-vorwerk-group.de/en 
ir@friedrich-vorwerk.de 
 
Legal notice 
Friedrich Vorwerk Group SE 
Harburger Straße 19 
21255 Tostedt 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
